Yeshua said, right, "Beware of false prophets." It's like, "What do you mean, Jesus?" There were no false prophets who came after you and twisted your message. Paul came after you and clarified your message. Paul's gospel of cheap grace and easy belieism is quite literally the broadest road and the easiest path there is. That's why Jesus warned us about it. Although Paul meant well, he was also deeply narcissistic. And I believe that Paul was being deceived by a demon posing as his private Jesus. And so Christianity is in this absurd position of predicating its entire religion on the private visions of one man who never met Jesus. Christianity must repent for following a false prophet whom Jesus warned us about and return back to Christ and finally let the words of the master speak for themselves. We know in every single area of life that it's important to do due diligence and to look for red flags. What we're going to begin to notice is just red flag after red flag with Paul. You can't be a follower of Paul and a follower of Jesus. You know, we start off, we went through seven different times where Jesus warned about Paul. Do you really love Jesus? Is he really your savior? Is he, you know, Paul didn't die on the cross for you. He didn't make any kind of sacrifice for you. Jesus said, "I'm the way, the truth, and the life." You can't mix truth with Pauline theology. Shalom. Peace be with you. And welcome back, my friends, to the Jesus Way podcast. It's kind of funny because we've been doing this podcast for six, seven months, something like that. And we up to this point somehow have not done a standalone Paul episode. And yet most of you watching know that this is sort of what I'm most well known for in this kind of Christian space is talking about all the contradictions between Paul's gospel and Jesus's gospel. And so today, at long last, we're going to do a standalone episode going from top to bottom on this subject of why we reject the teachings of Paul upon which all of mainstream Christianity today is based. And in this message today, we're very grateful to be joined by a fellow Nazarene follower of the way, Mr. David Natsori, who James and I have been a big fan of for a couple of years now. uh we were going down this rabbit hole a few years back and diving into the history of the Nazarines and you know the whole idea of how Paul's teachings corrupted the teachings of Jesus and really getting redpilled on this and to our shock we couldn't find many resources on on YouTube and the internet to dive more into this research but we were very grateful to find one gem of a channel near the beginning which was this guy named David Natsorai who was absolutely going balls to the walls on these messages and just dropping all the codes, all the gems, everything we were looking for with great finesse and academic sophistication and highlevel rigor that we hadn't found in anybody else. And so we eventually became friends with David and we have a little Nasbro text thread with him and Chris Sarta, Cam Waters, and so many others who have been on this podcast. And so we're very grateful, brother, to finally get you on the Jesus Way podcast. Thanks so much for joining us today and we are excited to dive in with you on uh what I think is probably your best topic. Yeah, I'm glad to be here. I've been uh been looking forward to it. So, let's uh let's take down Paul. Yes, sir. It's uh it's a sorely needed thing today in Christianity because I think it's Matthew 7:15. Yeshua said, right, "Beware of false prophets who come to you in sheep's clothing, but inwardly are ravenous wolves. You will know them by their fruits." This was like a very real warning that Jesus gave his followers that Christianity has apparently ignored because nobody seems to know who Jesus was warning us about, right? It's like, "What do you mean, Jesus? There were no false prophets who came after you and twisted your message. Paul came after you and clarified your message. Paul said that you sent us Paul, who Paul said was your secret chosen apostle to the Gentiles. And we know that Paul can't be wrong because Paul said that you chose him and told him all of this in Paul's private visions. It's like, sounds a little sus, don't you think? How quick are we going to be to ignore the warning of our master? So, as a third generation pastor son grew up in evangelical Christianity, much like you, David, a theology graduate, former full-time pastor, it is now my firm conviction that the Christianity of today bears almost no resemblance to the teachings of the man it claims to follow. Modern Christianity with all of its megaurches and famous televangelists preaches doctrines that are not only contrary to Jesus, but in my opinion are downright demonic and anti-gosspel and antichrist. Teachings like original sin, total depravity, blood atonement, penal substitution. In Christian cultures today, shame and guilt and unworthiness and self-rejection are touted as virtues because of these doctrines. And so, Christians kind of perpetually live with this private guilt and secret bondages to sin. Even though Yeshua came to set us free from the bondage to sin, we're told, "No, no, no. You can't stop sinning because you're inherently evil and sinful to the core. So all you can do is confess Jesus as your personal Lord and Savior and be glad that you're not going to hell when you die. That's the gospel of Jesus. And we all know that this is a reprehensible belief system. We feel it when we hear it preached from the pulpit. And yet we are gas lit by religion who tells us that this obviously evil belief is actually a beautiful love story from God. And we're told that this is good news. That God had to violently murder his son on the cross just so he could forgive you and not send you to hell. That's not a love story, my friends. That's Stockholm syndrome. And so, this is, in our opinion, the big scandal at the heart of Christianity today. The gospel conspiracy, as I like to call it, that the gospel of Jesus was quickly replaced by the gospel of Paul. And that Christianity today should be more aptly named polyanity because that's whose gospel you get when you enter any Christian church today. It is perhaps the greatest bait and switch of all time. That millions of people rightfully so love and revere Jesus and are drawn to Christianity because of him. But once they get you inside those church doors, they give you virtually nothing but Paul. And they only referenced Jesus as the blood meat sacrifice who came from heaven to die for our sins and floated back up to heaven. And so we should just confess him and worship him. And so it should come as no surprise, right? Why so few Christians truly follow Jesus. So I think the dichotomy, you guys, between Jesus and Paul that we can really hit on today is that Jesus's gospel without question was very, very hard. And many people went away sad when they were told the criterion for being Jesus's disciple. Whereas Paul's gospel exploded through the Mediterranean region and became the basis and foundation of the Christian religion today. One gospel says, "Deny yourself, take up your cross daily, forgive everyone, love your enemies, and if you don't serve the least of these, you ain't getting into my kingdom." The other gospel says, "No, there's nothing you can do to go to heaven. you're evil. So, all you can do is confess Jesus as Lord. Believe he rose from the dead. That's it. Welcome to Christianity. Which one of these messages, you guys, do you think is going to sell more tickets? Which one of these messages is going to put more butts and seats? Paul's gospel of cheap grace and easy belieism is quite literally the broadest road possible and the easiest path there is. And that's why Jesus warned us about it. So, I want to preface this podcast, guys, before we dive in by saying that although we disagree with most of what Paul taught, we don't see Paul as some kind of evil bad person or an enemy. Paul is also our divine brother and we love Paul just the same as we love everyone. I do think Paul probably met well and that he wrote some good things, but the fact remains, right, that humans are very complicated creatures. People aren't black and white, all good or all bad. We don't live in this kind of comic book world of heroes and villains. We have to do away with these childish ways of thinking and accept the complexities and nuances of history because two things can be true. Although Paul meant well, he was also deeply narcissistic, deeply traumatized. And I believe that Paul was being deceived by a demon posing as his private Jesus. And so Christianity declares that if you don't believe Paul's private Jesus, you're a heretic. Even though Paul never met the living Jesus, you must accept Paul as the highest authority of Christian theology, even above Jesus's own brother, James, his 12 appointed disciples, and sadly, even above Jesus himself. Jesus's teachings in Christianity today are constantly harmonized or even fully negated with the teachings of Paul to avoid the obvious contradictions between them. And so millions of Christians secretly recognize these contradictions and sort of struggle with Paul's teachings. But they're told every Sunday, you're not allowed to question this. This is the infallible word of God speaking through Paul. And so Christianity is in this absurd position of predicating its entire religion on the private visions of one man who never met Jesus. Yeshua said, "My sheep know my voice and the voice of another they will not follow." Paul is quite literally the voice of another, you guys. And so in conclusion to all of this, we believe that this is the great reformation that Christianity sorely needs today. Return, my friends, to the teachings of the master. Christianity must repent for following another man, a false prophet whom Jesus warned us about, and return back to Christ, Yeshua the Nazarene, and finally let the words of the master speak for themselves. That's what we're going to talk about today on this episode. So, I'll go ahead and throw it over to you now, David. Um, where do you want to kick us off today? Well, let's uh let's start on that first slide of why we should test Paul. So, you uh you touched on uh Paul's narcissism, and like any good narcissist, um a narcissist always has an enabler. And Paul is unique because he has a whole army of enablers. Um you could think of him as like the the flying monkeys that surround the wicked witch of the west and the Wizard of Oz. And as soon as you start criticizing Paul, here come the flying monkey saying, "Oh, you can't criticize Paul, you know, he's he's uh gave his you got his commission straight from Jesus according to Paul." And it's like Tertullian said, "No man can be both uh claimant and his own witness." And so that's essentially we have with Paul. So um so in in order to uh just kind of disarm the the flying monkeys right off the bat, let's let's look at a couple of verses here. uh Revelation 2:1 and this is uh Yeshua speaking Jesus to the angel of the church of Ephesus write the words of him who holds the seven stars in his right hand who walks among the seven golden lampstands. I know your works your toil and your patient endurance and how you cannot bear with those who are evil but have tested those who call themselves apostles and are not and found them to be false. So notice that Jesus Christ himself praised this congregation because they tested some that were claiming to be apostles. And so obviously Yeshua has no problem with us testing someone coming in his name claiming to be an apostle. And also Acts 17:11. Now, these these Jews were more noble than those in Thessalonica because they received the word with eagerness and examined the scriptures to see if these things were so. So, notice that it's more noble to examine the scriptures and see if the things being said there, if the claims are true. So if it was righteous and noble and correct to test things back when these words were written is still noble and good and righteous to test things. So uh anyone who says that we don't want we shouldn't ever test Paul. We shouldn't examine him uh they typically I think do that out of fear because they don't want his works to be exposed. So, it's almost an equivocation with Paul and God. Like, questioning Paul is questioning God. And we know in every single area of life that it's important to do due diligence and to look for red flags, right? And as we go through this this conversation and these slides, what we're going to begin to notice is just red flag after red flag with Paul. And it's really remarkable because some of these these red flags tie back in from from different parts of the Bible. And it really just blew my mind. And to any Christian who's watching this who is maybe pro Paul and if you're able to watch this with an open mind, you're truly a courageous soul and I commend you for listening. Yeah. Well, well said. That's a great point as well that um it takes some gumption to question your beliefs. It's not comfortable, but it shows that you're truly devoted to the truth if you're willing to question things. And why should we fear questioning? If truth is true and cannot be changed, why would we ever tell somebody not to question something? That cannot possibly be coming from the voice of God saying not to question something. God's not concerned with you questioning truth. Truth will hold up to scrutiny every single time. But you know what doesn't hold up to scrutiny? Lies and illusions. And so those who are championing lies and illusions will say, "You don't question your evil for questioning." And uh to your point, David, on the flying monkeys analogy, which I love, I wanted to quickly have you tell the story you told us the other day in our text thread about the uh Baptist preacher you had a a runin with at this church over Paul's teachings. Yeah. So, um when me and my family, um we we moved to a new city or a new town. It wasn't a city. Uh we got this little 12acre farm out in the country and um we were unpacking the moving truck and so you know we had the big U-Haul in the front yard and uh one day this pastor pulls up and he's um he he goes to the he's the pastor of the little Baptist church down the road and he invites us to his church and I explained to him I'm like hey look I don't I don't have Baptist beliefs you're you you may not want me uh you know coming in there and he goes know, as long as you love Jesus, then um then you're welcome. And uh and I said, "Well, as long as y'all love Jesus, then I'm I'll be happy to be there." And he assured me that they were a Bible believing a Jesus believing rather congregation. And so I uh we agreed to go. So we we ended up going to this church for two months. And this um one thing I want to point out is that this Bibleloving or this I keep saying Bible, this Jesusloving church never once quoted Jesus the entire time we went there. And this was we probably went there a good yeah eight or nine weeks. And um after about the third week like he would do this thing every week where he would say everyone rise for the reading of the word of God. So you know everybody would stand up and I would just stand up. I wouldn't think much about it. And uh after about the third or fourth week of doing that, the Holy Spirit kind of uh spoke to me as I was standing there and he said, "Are you aware of what you're doing right now?" And I was like, "What do you mean?" And he goes, "You're standing for the reading of the word of God and the pastor's up there reading passages from Paul." And I was like, "Oh, I mean, I I immediately knew what the what the issue was. I was standing in agreement through my actions with this idea that that Paul was speaking the word of God. So I sat down and uh and I'm the only person in the whole church sitting and we were right there. We were right up there in like the second row and a couple of my kids, you know, looked over and they sat down too or whatever. My wife was looking at me weird. And after church I, you know, explained to her why I sat. And the next week we go into the church and the pastor's like, "Please rise for the reading of the word of God." And we all stood up and he goes, "So turn to Romans chapter nine." And we all sat down. Like the whole family sat down. And the next week, same thing. Turn to, you know, uh, Galatians chapter 2 or whatever. We just all sat down. And that went on for three or four weeks. And eventually we just got kind of got tired of going there. like it it wasn't a especially didn't feel real welcoming once that whole thing started. But the pastor never asked me about it. Um at least not then not then. So we stopped going u we you know went two or three weeks going somewhere else or not not going to that church or whatever. But um eventually the pastor came back by my house and uh I was out in the front yard and he stopped and he was he was asking about uh you know why we stopped going and he got to the subject of uh of us sitting down and he said I just I was wondering if you stopped going because you were offended at us reading the word of God. And I and I said pastor I ain't offended at all. I keep at I keep waiting for you to read the word of God. But every time I stand up, you you go to read the words of Paul and I don't think Paul's a god. And so because I don't think Paul's a god, I sit back down. And I said, I'm not going to stand there and and blaspheme the Holy Spirit by standing and saying that that Paul's a god. And this pastor, you know, of course, he looks all offended and self-righteous. He goes, "Are you saying that you don't think that Paul wrote under inspiration of the Holy Spirit?" And I said, "Uh, I said, "Yeah." I said, "No, I don't." Because, uh, Jesus spoke under inspiration of the Holy Spirit, and Paul says things contrary to Jesus, and I know the Holy Spirit won't disagree with itself. So, I'm pretty certain if I were to uh say that Paul wrote under inspiration of the Holy Spirit when he's sitting there contradicting Jesus that that would fall under the, you know, category of blaspheming in the Holy Spirit. So, I sit back down and that pastor goes, "Well, I don't know anywhere that Paul says anything that contradicts Jesus." Uhoh. And I said, I said, "I'm glad you asked." And so uh I said well you know if you f if you go to uh 1 Corinthians chapters 8 and 10 Paul is very specific saying that we can eat meat sacrificed to idols and about that time the pastor starts kind of walking toward his car and he didn't even say bye or anything. He just starts walking toward his car. So, I'm walking with him and he starts walking a little bit faster and I'm just like, "Yeah, Paul even says you can go into an idol's temple in 1 Corinthians chapter 8." He says, "You can go into an idol's temple and eat meat right off the altar there in this pagan al temple." Correct. And I said, "Then I turned to Revelation chapter 2 and Jesus says that's a doctrine of Balum and a stumbling block to the children of Israel and that we should not eat meat sacrificed idols." And about that time, this pastor speedw walking to his car. He jumps in his car and starts it up and takes off down the road. doesn't say another word to me. He just as soon as I started bringing up me sacrificed to idols, he was out of there. And I was like, geez, I had more evidence for him. He didn't even stick around for that. Pastor, wait, we just got started. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, the issue is he obviously knew, you know, he obviously knew that that there was a problem there. Otherwise, he wouldn't have left like that. like and he just he's not used to people actually having the evidence and being able to just pull it off off the top of their head and start um you know bringing it up by point by point and um so yeah he um he didn't stop by anymore after that. He he was done with me. Well pastor if you're watching this show right now we've got all the evidence you're looking for. Now this this topic does make a lot of people short circuit. Erin and I have witnessed it quite a few times. Yeah. Yeah, it's the brain breaker for sure. I mean, when you predicate your entire religion on one man's theology, then you're on this very like fragile house of cards situation where all we have to do now is show one blatant contradiction and the whole house of cards comes falling down. And so again, we we're here to say, why build a house of cards at all? We already have the teachings of Jesus. Why do we need anybody else? Yeah. just at no time in Jesus's ministry did he ever tell us to look for someone else that's going to come along and fix all of his deficiencies. You know, he he um he was very specific that that his uh heaven and earth would pass away, but his words would never pass away. And um and you know, if you're going to believe Paul's theology, as soon as Jesus resurrected from the dead, everything he said prior to that passed away. And that's that's just not, you know, it doesn't it doesn't line up with the things that Yeshua promised us and told us. So, um, and the only person the only person that he actually pointed to was his brother James, who he appointed as his successor and said, "Hey, when I'm gone, listen to him." And what do we see in when Christians read the book of James? They're like, "Oh, James didn't really mean faith without works is dead. He meant what Paul said." It's frustrating. Exactly. So, uh, so yeah, Jesus didn't say that somebody's going to come along to to fix his mistakes or or correct his theology, but he did warn about a false prophet that was going to come along. In fact, he gave uh seven at least seven warnings that were relatively specific. So, uh, the first warning, this person will be called least. In Matthew 5:19, "Whoever therefore shall break one of these commands the least, and may teach men so least, he shall be called in the reign of heaven. And whoever may do and teach them, he shall be called great in the kingdom of heaven. For I say to you that if your righteousness may not abound above that of the scribes and Pharisees, you may not enter into the reign of heaven, into the kingdom of heaven." So, um, you know, a lot of people quote this verse as far as we should still be keeping the law, keeping the Torah, but I've I haven't heard many people actually touch on it from this perspective, and that's to focus on this least. The man who teaches people to break these commands will be called least. And notice just before we move on that he it doesn't say that he's going to be in the kingdom of heaven. It says that the people in the kingdom of heaven will call him least. So, uh, any guess as to what Paul's name means in Latin? I love this. Means the least. It means the least, uh, right here. And this is from from Strongs. Um, Paul's name Paulos is of a Latin origin. And what it is, it's a contraction of the word poxalis. And so, um, it's, you know, the same way that you could have a name like Richard and maybe you would shorten it to Rich or or Dick or whatever. You do the same thing with Latin names. So Paul's full name was Poxalis. So if you saw his birth certificate, his Roman birth certificate, it would say poxalis, but then he would go by Paulos. And poxalis means least. It's the uh double demonstrative form of the word pacus, which means little. And so the double demonstrative turns it into a superlative tense. And the superlative tense is um um you know the same as for us to be the least. Josephus actually calls Paulus as well in his writing. Paul actually even refers to this in 1 Corinthians 15:9. He he says Yahw was not the the least of the apostles. He says that because of um his of his name, meaning of his name. And in this Jameson faucet Brown Bible com commentary, it says that you know plain as day that Paulus in Latin means least. Yeah. So I mean you know Yeshua went as far as essentially calling them out by name. Yeah. And I mean from like a scholarly perspective, right? We know that the synoptic writers came after Paul and we know that Matthew is the most Jewish of the gospels and they're really trying to paint Jesus as the new Moses and all this stuff. And so they probably the author of Matthew probably didn't like all this henistic platonic philosophy Paul's espousing. And there's a lot of kind of direct contradictions to Pauline theology in Matthew uh much more so than the other three gospels. And so it seems like while Mark likes to use a lot of Paul, Matthew likes to show what he disagrees with on Paul. And uh this is one of those things you wonder like if this if the author of Matthew wasn't putting that in there directly to kind of tell people like, "Hey, don't be listening to this guy named Paul because Jesus warned us about him." Yeah. Absolutely. So, um there's uh the second warning if we want to move on to that is um beware of the levan. Um in Matthew 16:6, Jesus says to his apostles, he says, "Watch and beware of the leaven of the Pharisees and the Sadducees." And so it says they began arguing amongst themselves about not having bread. And Yeshua, you know, rebukes them. He says, "How do you not fail? How do you fail to understand that I'm not talking about bread? I'm saying beware of the leavenven of the Pharisees and the Sadducees. And then they understood that he didn't tell them to beware of the leavenven of bread, but the teaching of the Pharisees and Sag. So the the teaching of the Pharisees and Sadducees is the leaven. Now in Mark 18 or 8:15, he says a little bit different. He says, "Watch out and beware of the leavenven of the Pharisees and the leavenven of Herod." So he's warning about Herodians and Pharisees. Oh man. And and so um if we if we look at at Paul's genealogy, he's actually a a Herodian. A Herodian Pharisee. Yeah. And in Acts 23:6, this is after uh Paul has supposedly been converted for uh a couple of decades at least. He says, "I am the Pharisee, a son of a Pharisee." So he is not not that he used to be a Pharisee. He says I am a Pharisee. Um Philippians 3:5 again he says that he um he was a Pharisee descended from the tribe of Benjamin. And in Romans 16:10 he says greet those who belong to the family of Aristobulus. Greet my kinsen kinsmen Herodian. Now that word for kinsmen is usually translated cousin. So, Herodian means little Herod. And at the time that Paul wrote the the letter to the Romans, uh the the youngest Herod, because in the in the family of Herod the Great, there were lots of Herods. Um there were also lots of Aristobuluses. And um Herodian would have been the man who grew up to be Herod of of Chais and he um he would have been um about 9 or 10 years old at that point but his father was Aristobulus. So here you know Paul is invoking this family of Herodians and he's telling the Romans to you know to greet those who belong to the family of Aristobulus. Well, the Herodians would be sent to to Rome to be educated. So why was he saying that to to the Romans? Well, because probably Herodian was in Rome being educated because that's what all the Herods did. So you have here uh this warning from from Yeshua, beware of the leavenven of the Pharisees and legend Levven of Herod. And then you have this uh you know supposed uh 13th apostle come along who is both Herodian and a Pharisee fits both those warnings from uh from Jesus. Ouch. Yeah. And this uh theory that Paul was part of the Herodian family or bloodline checks out even from the most rigorous scholarship. I'm taking a class right now on New Testament early Christian history and there's a whole book on Paul we're reading and uh the the scholar of who's writing the book is talks about this briefly that a lot of scholars and historians think that he clearly was part of this bloodline and that makes sense that he's a Pharisee and all this. So yeah, it's like another how do you miss that warning where Jesus is literally like watch out for Pharisees and Herodians. Paul's like, "Hello, friends. I'm a Herodian Pharisee here to tell you the true message of Jesus in private." Well, there's another aspect of that, too. As we looked at in Matthew, he was he said the Sadducees and the Pharisees. Well, when we were first introduced to Paul, um he was an agent of the high priest who was a Sadducee, which is it's kind of an unusual situation. uh why was a Pharisee being tapped by the Sadducees to to go out and do the the work of this Sadducee and high priest? But I think a lot of that really probably has to do with the fact that Paul was a Herodian because it was the Herods who appointed the high priests. So the the um Sadducees were essentially agents of of Herod and they did the bidding of Herod. So, it's a it's all just the lines blur a little bit between the Romans, the Herodians, and then the priesthood because they're all kind of working together and he was basically deep state. Yeah, exactly. Pretty much. And that and that explains a little bit about First Corinthians 13 where he's saying, "Make sure you obey all the ruling authorities." Well, that's that's Paul's family, so of course he's saying to obey the ruling authorities. Right. Right. And I also just remembered that one of the other scholarly theories is how Paul first of all is a Roman citizen. And something about that I'm blanking now what exactly the argument is, but it's like you couldn't really get Roman citizenship like full citizenship unless you were born into like a Roman family. And then Paul is escaping all of his trials and persecutions because these Roman centurions will step in and save him. And it's like no, no Roman centurion would give a about a normal person who's under a trial. They would only step in to save somebody who was of some kind of royal family bloodline or somebody they wanted to protect like probably the Herodians. It's like the people on the Epstein list never get get arrested. Oh, they're in the club, right? Paul was in the club. Yeah, he absolutely was. I mean, um, so how did Paul get his Roman citizenship? Well, the the father of Herod the Great, um, I'm kind of blanking on his name at the moment. I know his name starts with an A, but he um he was a general in the in Caesar's army and he uh because of his his accomplishments, Caesar uh Julius Caesar actually gave him perpetual Roman citizenship for his family. Josephus records that. So once the father of Herod the Great was given Roman citizenship, then that citizenship passed on to to Herod and to all of Herod's kids and and so how did Paul have Roman citizenship? Well, it's because he was a member of the family. He was a member of the club. So warning number three, uh Matthew 24:23, Yeshua's apostles ask him about when is his his return going to be. and and Yeshua gives some some details about what's going to happen in the coming days. And so in Matthew 24 starting in verse 23, he says, "If anyone says to you, look, here is the Christ or there do not believe it." So if anyone claims to have a sighting of him, he said, "Because false Christs and false prophets will arise and perform great signs and wonders so as to lead astray, if possible, even the elect." So, I just want to point out Jesus wouldn't have warned us about false messiahs and false prophets if there were not going to be false Christ and false prophets. Exactly. So, verse 25, see this. See, I've told you beforehand. So, in other words, you need to listen. I'm telling you this in advance. So, don't say you weren't warned. You know, I'm telling you ahead of time. So, if they say to you, "Look, he's in the wilderness." Do not go out. If they say, "Look, he's in the inner rooms," do not believe it. For as lightning comes from the east and shines to the west, so will be this the coming the son of man. Where the corpse is, there the vultures will gather. So why is he saying no to don't believe it? Well, it's because when he does return, everyone's going to see him. Revelation 17, behold, he's coming with the clouds and every eye will see him. So in other words, if he's not going to be seen by one person, he's going to be seen by everyone when he returns. So if somebody comes around and says, "Hey, I saw Jesus out in the wilderness." Then you don't believe him because he everyone should see him, not just this one individual. So what does Paul claim? Paul in Acts 9:3 says, and this is one of the three different accounts that we have of Paul's supposed conversion on the the road to Damascus, but it says as he went on his way, he approached Damascus. So, in other words, he was in the wilderness. You know, he was walking down the highway and suddenly a light from heaven flashed around him and falling to the ground, he heard a voice saying to him, "Saul, Saul, why are you persecuting me?" And he said, "Who are you, Lord?" He said, "I am Jesus whom you are persecuting." So here you have Paul claiming that he saw Jesus in the wilderness. Also in Acts 22:17, Paul is recounting to a um this is when he was arrested in the temple. He's recounting to I believe it was a Roman soldier he's actually telling this to, but he says, "When I had returned to Jerusalem and while I prayed in the temple, I fell into a trance and I saw him saying to me, hurry and get out of Jerusalem quickly." So he here he's claiming also to have seen Jesus in the inner room. And this that phrase inner room is an idiomatatic expression that that the Jews would use to refer to the the temple itself inside the temple, the inner room. So both of these warnings, both of these prophecies from Jesus are fulfilled in Paul's claims to his private visions. Man, it's so amazing when you unpack it like this. James, you said this earlier today when we were talking that this this kind of stuff really makes you believe in biblical prophecy, but like not all of it's, you know, fake. Like a lot of these prophecies were legit. And especially obviously Yeshua's prophecies, but I mean, we're talking point 4 point here. Jesus says, "When I return, it's going to be like lightning flashes from the east to the west." Aka, everyone sees it at the same time. So if somebody says, "Look, Jesus is in the desert. I saw him." Don't believe them. If they say, "I saw him in the inner room." Don't believe them. And where does Paul say, "I met Jesus in the desert on the road to Damascus, and he appointed me to be a special disciple, and I saw him in two inner rooms." It's like, I I don't know how it could be any more obviously Paul that Jesus is talking about. It also shows Yeshua's wisdom of the past because he saw this same pattern play out with the prophets in the Old Testament and how the temple cult corrupted the Torah and kind of obfiscated the prophets. So he was like, "This has happened in the past, it's going to happen in the future." And I I find that really interesting. Yeah. It's amazing how once you recognize this uh this pattern that Professor Tabler calls the the red thread and the blue thread and you see the pattern and the way that there's always this um prophetic group of believers who are preaching against the sacrificial system, against the temple system, and and they're they're preaching righteousness and justice. And then there's always this other group of the the temple cult that comes along and is always pushing it. And it's it's a a constant like pendulum swinging back and forth. And as soon as as soon as you have a prophet like Yeshua or Jeremiah or Isaiah or any any of these others that have been sent by Yahwa, once they start to to get the people to turn back to righteousness, then the temple cult always manages to come in and and subvert the true message. I mean, that that's what you saw with with Paul, who, you know, he was sent in by the high priest. Yeah. It's like this perpetual tugofwar through the whole Bible. Yep. Exactly. I also find it suspect that again this is the story on which all of Christianity is predicated. This guy who was a serial killer of Christians was in the desert and boom encounters Jesus thrown off his horse. Jesus strikes him blind and he appoints him to be a special apostle. And when you read these three accounts they are laughably contradictory between each other. Even just like a young child reading these stories and like wait a minute. The first story says that they didn't hear a voice, but they did fall down. And then the second story says they did not hear a voice, but they did fall down. And how can truth be contradictory? Like, if this is really what the religion is based upon, shouldn't these stories at least be consistent? It's almost kind of intellectually insulting that we're supposed to believe this. An analogy you could use is with the recent passing of Charlie Kirk. Let's imagine that after Charlie Kirk passes away, one of his longtime political enemies, comes back from the from vacation in the desert, like everyone, you're not gonna believe it. Charlie Kirk came to me and told me that I'm now the leader of Turning Point USA. Well, what happened? And then they tell three different stories of what happened, their encounter with Charlie Kirk. Like, you got to trust me. I'm now the leader of Turning Point. We're taking it in a new direction. You go. Alex speak to Charlie in private. Yeah. Yeah. Charlie keeps talking to me in private. We will would all rightly go, that's sketch, bro. That doesn't possess, bro. Yeah. Well, well, Paul, he he made the claim that he had the spirit of Jesus living within him. In the book of Galatians, he he talks about that. Could you imagine just, you know, some one of Charlie's enemies appearing on the scene and saying, you know, I'm I'm uh possessed by Charlie's spirit and he's living within me. A little sus. Yeah. Little a little bit. Uh number four. So, so like the next three warnings, they all come one after another in Matthew chapter 7. And so, you know, it would kind of make sense that they're all referring to the same person. Um, so Matthew 7:13, "Enter in by the narrow gate, for the gate is wide, and the way is easy that leads to destruction, and those who enter it are many, but the gate is narrow and the way is hard that leads to life, and those who find it are few." So, there's this warning that you you don't want to take the easy path. You want the the path that's got more tribulation along the way and is more difficult. And then he uh he immediately warns about false prophets. He goes, "Beware of false prophets who come to you in sheep's clothing, but inwardly are ravenous wolves. You will recognize them by their fruits." So, you know, it should be obvious where he's tying this into that the fruits the the fruits that we're supposed to recognize are this wide gate that leads to destruction. And so, um, anytime somebody is is speaking against the the keeping of God's commandments or speaking against trying to turn away from sin, who do they always quote? They always quote Paul. So Paul's fruit is this wide gate. So where does this mentioning of the ravenous wolves like why is that important? is highlighted there in verse 15. And it's not just some random statement that Yeshua is is throwing in there. It ties back to a prophecy in Genesis 49:1 where Jacob is he gathers all of his sons together. He he gives a prophecy about each of them in the last days. So the last days is the advent of Messiah when when the Messiah appears on the scene. And for Benjamin, Jacob said, "Benjamin is a ravenous wolf. In the morning, devouring the prey and at evening dividing the spoil." And the early church, they actually applied this to Paul, this ravenous wolf prophecy, because at in the morning, at the beginning of his life, he was devouring the prey. He was attacking the the church and in evening dividing the spoil. And so, you know, then he converted and kind of went um and more or less, you know, if you can't beat them, join them. And he he joined the church to uh to corrupt it from the inside. So, he was dividing the spoil. He was um trying to take a portion of the believers away from the true apostles and and lead them astray. And Paul numerous times refers to himself as a member of the tribe of Benjamin. As you can see there in Romans 11 uh one. Oh my gosh. So he's a Pharisee, a Herodian, and a of the tribe of Benjamin. Three for three. And the least and the least. And he's four for four thus far. And that's just the tip of the iceberg. Each each one of these on their own are damning. But when you take all of them together, it's just mind-blowing. Well, there's there's others, too. There's there's others that are not specific, so I didn't even include them. But you know, Yeshua says that if another comes in his own name, him you will receive. And you know, Paul's the one who's always like, "My gospel, my gospel, my gospel." He's coming in his own name. But it's just, you know, for me, it's just these are the seven that are really specific to him. So, I didn't include that one. And there's others I haven't included. Um there's a a prophecy in um in Zechariah 11 that talks about this foolish shepherd that's going to come after the good shepherd, and he's going to be blind. he's going to be blind in one eye. And Paul complains about being blinded like he's, you know, not not just in the vision on the way to Damascus, but he um later on he writes about not being able to see and how this uh I think it's in Corinthians he says they would you would have uh pulled out your own eyes and given them to me. So obviously it's a problem with Paul's eyes. And um so yeah, there's there's I mean the seven really is just the tip of the iceberg because there's a lot more prophecies that could be uh linked to him. And on that note too, David, like we haven't even gotten into the false prophet aspect yet, which we will uh in a minute, but like all of these warning prophecies of Yeshua, he's saying false prophet, false prophet, false prophet. And so really all we have to do to 100% tie these prophecies to Paul is answer the question, was Paul a false prophet? As we're going to show you guys, the answer is definitively and unquestionably yes. You cannot argue it any other way. And we'll show you why. But that to me again is like the biggest slam dunk of all. Paul is unquestionably a false prophet. And that's who Jesus time and time again warned his followers would come after him. Yep. Uh warning number five. Not everyone who says to me, 'Lord, Lord, will enter the kingdom of heaven, but the one who does the will of my father who is in heaven. On that day, many will say to me, Lord, Lord, do we not prophesy in your name and cast out demons in your name and do many miracles in your name? And then I will declare to them, I never knew you. Depart from me, you workers of lawlessness. And you know, so you compare that, you know, Jesus, you know, not everyone who says to me Lord, Lord, not everyone who calls me Lord is going to be, you know, saved, enter the kingdom of heaven. Romans 10:9, if you confess with your mouth that Jesus is Lord and believe in your heart that God raised him from the dead, you will be saved. I mean, that it's the exact opposite the exact opposite of what Jesus said. And and Paul did all of these things. Paul prophesied in his name. He cast out demons in his name. He did miracles in his name. All in Acts. Um David, are you familiar with Acts 16:16 where Paul casts out the demon of the slave girl? Um this is I just found this today. I was telling Aaron and this blew our minds. So in this Acts 16:16, Paul, Silas, and their companions were in Philippi, a Roman colony in Macedonia. As they were on their way to a place of prayer, they encountered a slave girl who was possessed by what the text calls a spirit of python. Okay. Now, spirit of python refers to the serpent called Adelfi, right? Which is a Greek milk. the the serpent Python guarded the oracle and Apollo killed it and took it over becoming Python Apollo. So, it's like a pagan demon. Um, this this woman is possessed by a demon of Apollo essentially. So, this girl had the ability to predict fortunes and her owners made a great deal of money off of her abilities. For days she followed Paul and his group around loudly proclaiming, "These men are servants of the most high God who are telling you the way to be saved." So, we have a so this this demon-possessed woman is saying that Paul is the road to salvation. Now, Paul gets annoyed and cast the demon out of her after three days of her following. So, we know it was a demon. He cast the demon out. But listen to this. The craziest part. It's a demon of Apollo. Revelation 9:11 says that the angel of the bottomless bottomless pit is named Apolon. And Paul says, "Satan comes as an angel of light. Apollo is always linked to Lucifer because they were both lightbears." So that just blew my mind. Sorry to rant about that, but I was like, whoa. Now, it's interesting you brought that up. Yeah. Um, so Apollo is essentially the male version of the Statue of Liberty. So, uh, you know, the the rays coming out of her out of her head. So, yeah, that's he's he's connected to Lucifer. Um, in fact, that's what Statue of Liberty is. It's a big statue of of Lucifer. But, so, yeah, I mean, it's an odd situation. You got this demon-possessed woman giving um you know certifying Paul's gospel like like what kind of advertisement is that? Like you you're having a demon promoting you and and she followed him around for days before Paul was finally like you know rebuke the demon. Like the whole the whole story is very sus. Yeah. What when would a demon ever promote the road to salvation? A demon's purpose specifically is to keep you off the path of righteousness. Well, this this also ties into um the the two different types of um of tongues. So, there's the the gift of tongues that we see the apostles had, which is they speak in one language and the people hear them speaking in the language they understand. So, it would be like if you went down to um like Costa Rica and you were preaching before a a congregation that spoke Spanish and you don't speak Spanish and you're preaching in English, they're hearing you in Spanish. That's that's what the the legitimate apostolic gift of tongues is. That's what's described at the beginning of the book of Acts. Um Paul has a different type of tongues. And in Paul's gift of tongues, the people babble incoherently and you have to have somebody to be an interpreter. And so you got this babbling person and then you have someone interpreting what they're saying. Well, you mentioned the oracle at Deli. So when this oracle was under inspiration of this python spirit, guess what they did? They babbled incoherently and they had to have a priest there to decipher and interpret what he said. So where did Paul's tongues come from? Because they didn't come from Jesus. They weren't the tongues that Jesus gave his his apostles from the python. It sounds like he was just that it was this python spirit that was uh that that was the gift the origin of the gift of tongues that Paul preached. And and actually too, David, I've heard um I think it was Bart Airman. I heard him talk about this subject and he said they one of the like Greek opponents of the new gentile Christians who's I might have been Tacitus or somebody who's basically shit-talking them and and propagandizing against them is mocking them for these this tongue festival thing they do where they babble incoherently. And he also said they would like slither on the ground like snakes. Oh wow. Isn't that wild? Well, you know, like that's that's really kind of Have you ever been to one of those churches that the people would, you know, speak in tongues? That a lot of them do that. They'll fall on the ground. They'll fall on the ground and roll around. So, yeah, definitely. Yeah. It's like what a predicament to find yourself in that a demon-possessed woman is following you around, championing your message for you. It's like that would make anybody feel a bit embarrassed and want to get rid of that situation. But what does it say about Paul's message? A demon will never, as James said, promote the true gospel salvation teachings of Yeshua that lead to eternal life. But as we say on this podcast, like we got to understand how the demonic works. They don't walk up to you twizzling their mustaches and cackling. They're not obvious like a comic book villain. They appear as an angel of light, even as Paul said, and he would know because he was possessed by one. And they come to you with 90% light. you know, like, "Oh, the most high God great in the heavens has championed this man Paul." And they weave in the 10% distortion or evil into it. And that's how they get everybody is your your brain hears the 90% good that you know and agree with. And so you bypass right over that 10% that you know is not in alignment. And that's because you're not sensitive enough to the Holy Spirit to say, "Wait a minute. Something feels off here." And as you said, James, like when you study Paul like this, you get absolutely nothing but red flags. Like I have to this day, years and years into studying Paul, I have not come across one thing in Paul's history, his character, his ministry, his teachings. Not one thing that I go, "Wow, you know, that really lines up with what Jesus taught. Not a single one, but over and over again, you're like, "Oh my gosh, there's like a new Paul argument every day that I find when I study Paul." And doesn't that say everything we need to know? like truth converges in one direction. It's obvious. It's forward- facing. It's not going to have all these contradictions latent in it. And so this is really, I think, a test from God to humanity of like, yo, I gave you guys my true Hamashiach, my true uh disciple from heaven who came to show the way to eternal life, and then after him, I sent you a deceiver who would come in his name and do all the things he said. And which one are you going to follow? You know, well, um, yeah. I mean, if you know any if you've ever met a deliverance minister or if you ever meet one in the future or you're the audience, if you ever talk to someone who talks about casting out demons and being a deliverance minister, just ask them, "Hey, these uh these demons that you you cast out, do they typically tell you the truth or they typically lie to you?" and and then and then think about this demon-possessed woman going around saying that Paul has the the words of the most high and the the words that lead to salvation and and ask yourself, is this something believable as a source of truth? We're going to go to the demons and, you know, like John Nelson Derby and come up with some type of dispensationalism or something. I think the demon has our best interest in mind, guys. Demon's got a point. Yeah. All right. Where are we at? Uh, number six. Uh, okay. So, we're still in Matthew 7. So, this is, and again, you know, just re-emphasize, he's going from point by point, and all of these tie back to Paul. So, Matthew 7:24, everyone then who hears these words of mine and does them will be like a wise man who built his house on the rock. And the rain fell and the floods came and the winds blew and beat on that house but it did not fall because it had been founded on the rock. And everyone who hears these words of mine and does not do them will be like a foolish man who built his house on the sand. And the rain fell and the floods came and the wind blew and beat on that house and it fell and great was the fall of it. So where did Yeshua come up with this whole analogy of these two houses? He didn't make it up. It was actually in Isaiah 28. Isaiah 28:15. Because you have said, we have made a covenant with death and with shol. We have an agreement. When the overwhelming whip passes through, it will not come on us. For we have made lies our refuge or our house. And in falsehood, we have taken shelter again in the house. And therefore, thus says the Lord God, behold, I am the one who has laid as a foundation in Zion a stone, a tested stone, a precious cornerstone of a sure foundation. Whoever believes will not be in haste. So, what does it mean by being in haste? Well, that means your house is collapsing. You're having to flee. You're not going to be in haste if you follow the the cornerstone, the the um the tested stone. And so, If we examine this a little bit closer where it says you've made a covenant with death and with shol well there at the bottom in Hebrew you have in Hebrew shol written and then you have saul or sha written and um you know even if you don't speak Hebrew or don't read Hebrew can you see a difference in those two words. So in in the original Hebrew text of Isaiah, there is no difference between Saul or Shio. So you could just as easily translate that verse, we have made a covenant with death and with Paul or Saul. We have an agreement. So they have this covenant with Saul which is really essentially what we see today in in the the way the world is and the way that that people are worshiping. So incredible you know when you when you take this what's being said here um if we were to say like okay let's just hypothetically say that he's talking about Saul not sh the grave he says I will make justice the line and righteousness the plum line. So justice and righteousness and what and hell will sweep sweep away the refuge of lies and waters will overwhelm the shelter. So if you're believing in Paul, if you're believing in the the house built on sand, you're going to get swept away. Exactly what Jesus was saying in Matthew 7. Then your covenant with death will be enulled and your agreement with Shaul or Paul will not stand. When the overwhelming scourge passes through, you will be beaten down by it. And as often as it passes through, it will take you morning by morning. It will pass through night by and day by night. And it will be sheer terror to understand the message. So, it does not sound like that Isaiah put a whole lot of faith in this agreement with Paul that that we're going to be making. And uh so what's the reference to death, your covenant with death? Well, Paul's the basis of Paul's covenant is the death of Messiah. He says you're crucified with Messiah. You're baptized into Messiah's death. Um the apostles on the other hand, they say that you're baptized into life. You're reborn into a new life. So there's there's two different baptisms being spoken about. There's two different gospels. Paul's gospel is the gospel of death. We're saved by the death of Jesus. The apostles say you're you're saved by and evidenced by the resurrection of Jesus, by the life. Yeah, this is a huge one, man. We we talk about the two ways philosophy quite a bit on this podcast from the dedicay and the Dead Sea Scrolls. And Jesus uses the two-ways philosophy. It is the original Christian doctrine. Basically, there's two ways a man can choose. The way of life or the way of death. And so, we want to look at these kinds of symbols. We want to pay attention to this because God speaks, the universe speaks to us in symbols and numbers through everything. Everything is numbers. Everything is math. And so, that's why the Hebrew language is based on numbers and numerology and gamatria and all of this because they believed language was deeply symbolic. And so for those of you who don't know how Hebrew works, these letters here, um, in Hebrew, the the only letters you see are consonant letters and the vowels are depicted underneath them or on top of them sometimes in what's called vowel symbols. And so these these two words are the same root word, but their vowel symbols would be slightly different from shiel to Saul. But the same root word is there, right? which is to me a clear symbol that Saul's name literally means the pit, the grave in Hebrew, and his name in Latin means the least. It's like we're not pointing the signs aren't pointing in the right direction here, you know. Yeah. Yeah. Well, and the vowel pointings, those are modern, you know. It's not something that they had back when I was Right. It's not even in the Hebrew Bible. Yeah. Yeah. I think it was around the year 1 um AD before the they started using those little vowel markings, the nikud or whatever they call them. Yep. So um but but back in in Yeshua's day and back in Isaiah's day, like Hebrew was written the the way it is there on the screen with no vow markings at all. You just have to interpret. All right. Uh so number seven, the meat sacrifice to idols issue. So in Revelation 2:14, Yeshua says, "I have a few things against you, that you have some there who hold to the teaching of Balum, who taught Balac to put a stumbling block before the sons of Israel, so that they might eat food sacrificed to idols and practice sexual immorality." And again later on to a different congregation, he says, "But I have this against you. Do you tolerate that woman Jezebel who calls herself a prophetus and is teaching and seducing my servants to practice sexual immorality and eat food sacrificed to idols? I gave her time to repent, but she refused to repent of her sexual immorality. But to the rest of you in Thotyra, who did not hold to this teaching, who have not learned what some call the deep things of Satan, to you I say, do not lay on I do not lay on you any other burden. only hold fast what you have until I come. And the one who conquers, who keeps my works until the end, I will give him authority over the nations. So Yeshua himself calls this eating meat sacrifice to idols an abomination, a stumbling block. Um you know, it's it's a teaching of Balum or a teaching of Jezebel. And he refers to this as the deep things of Satan. But then if you go over to okay well where does where do we hear somebody teaching people to eat meat sacrificed to idols? Well that's in uh 1 Corinthians. So in 1 Corinthians um 1 Corinthians 2:10 Paul says God has revealed this to us. This is Paul speaking about his secret knowledge his secret nosis. The spirit searches all things even the deep things of God. So, um, Paul is calling his teachings, his secret nosis, the deep things of God. This is what God was or Jesus was calling the deep things of Satan. I mean, that's a that's a pretty uh oh my gosh, that's a pretty sharp response. Now, you you can look in the entire New Testament, the only time you're going to see the deep things of theirs in these two verses here, though. It kind of narrows down what Jesus was talking about. Um, so again, you know, what are these what are these deep things of of God or deep things of Satan that Paul's teaching? Well, in Corinthians 8:4, therefore, as to the eating of food offered to idols, we know that an idol has no real existence and that there is no god but one. However, not all possess this knowledge, but some or knowledge of course is nosis. But some through form association with idols eat food as readily offered to an idol and their conscience being weak is defiled. So who is Paul speaking about here? These weak ones who their conscience is defiled. Well, that's James and the apostles. Because in the book of Acts, Paul goes to Jerusalem and there's this ruling made by James that says that we um in order to come into the congregation, a new convert had to give up meat sacrificed idols and blood and fornication and eating things strangled. So Paul agrees to these starter commandments, these four purity commands, and then he goes back to Antioch and he continues teaching them that it's okay to eat meat sacrificed to idols. And you can see the evidence of it right here. He's that's what he's saying. Verse eight, food will not commend us to God. We are no worse off if we do not eat, nor better off if we do. But take care that this right of yours does not somehow become a stumbling block to the weak. So he's using the same language, stumbling block, the same language that Jesus used in rebuking him. So Paul's saying it's a right. It's secret knowledge. If anyone sees you who have this nosis, eating in an idol's temple, will he not be encouraged if his conscience is weak to eat food sacrificed to idols? And so by your knowledge, a weak person is destroyed, the brother for whom Christ died. And then he goes on, if one of the unbelievers invites you to dinner and you're disposed to go eat whatever set before you without raising any question on grounds of conscience because but if someone says to you this has been offered in sacrifice then do not eat it for the sake of the one who informed you and for the sake of conscience but not his conscience. I do not mean I do not mean your conscience but his for why should my liberty be determined by someone else's conscience if I partake with thankfulness. Why am I denounced? Because of that which I give thanks. So Paul's being very clear according to him, it's okay to eat meat sacrificed idols. He doesn't care what James said. He doesn't care what uh you know what um Peter or anyone else says. You can eat meat sacrificed idols. Now the irony in this is that in first Corinthians, this is the the claim that's being put forth by Paul. But then in 2 Corinthians uh 12:7 Paul says he's got an angel of Satan in his flesh. So um Peter in the Nazarine Acts he says that the reason you don't want to eat meat sacrificed to idols is because it's a fellowship meal with the demon of that idol and you're opening yourself up to demon possession. So Paul's saying, "Oh man, that idol is not going to hurt you at all. Go ahead and eat the meat sacrificed to it." And and then in his second letter to the Corinthians, lo and behold, Paul's got a demon in his flesh. Yeah. It's like just because the the idol the god that the idol represents doesn't exist doesn't mean demonic forces won't use that to their advantage. And of course they do. And so here we have Paul directly contradicting what Yeshua forbid his churches to do, which to eat, be sacrificed to idols. and his appointed successor and bloodbrother told Paul to his face, "These are the only four criterion I have for you to agree with. Number one, do not eat meat, sacrifice to idols." And Paul still goes and does it and still says that it's fine to do it. And it's just like, well, it's just these weak conscience people because, as we know, all the Nazarines and Essene type of Jews were strict vegetarians who opposed animal sacrifice. And so, he saw them all as weak. And he talks about the vegetarian brothers among us. and you know, they're weak, but we're strong, so just be nice to them and stuff. And it's like, what an incredibly arrogant judgment to make about somebody who doesn't want to eat meat sacrificed to pagan idols. They're weak, Paul. And you know for sure that they're weak and you're strong. I mean, that's not the character of Christ. Christ said, "Do not judge or you will be judged." And here we have Paul as always cursing his enemies, name calling, even calling the disciples and brothers of Jesus hypocrites to their face. It's like, does does this when you weigh Paul's character against the gold standard of Jesus, does he measure up? Doesn't seem like it to me. And it's it's not scripturally sound to even say that because we have Daniel becoming stronger, right, wiser in this act of obedience to God, in this act of disobedience to a king to not eat their meat sacrificed to idols. It he's clearly rewarded by God. He has visitations from angels, all this stuff. So Paul is again going against former scripture and the Jerusalem council for this ridiculous take. Yeah. Yeah. And um well in and just I I don't have it in a slide, but just what Paul says in 2 Corinthians about this angel of Satan that's in his flesh that what he says about it, it it really refutes the fact or the the claim that he's an apostle because Jesus in the Gospels gave his apostles authority over demons and they could cast out demons. But Paul is stuck with this demon. He can't cast it out. He begs his Jesus, he says three times to to deliver him from it. And his Jesus refuses to cast it out. And you know, the the Jesus in the gospel says that he casts out demons, but Satan doesn't cast out Satan. So if if Paul's Jesus is not casting out Satan, it kind of narrows down who Paul's Jesus is, you know, because Satan doesn't cast out Satan. Yeah, that's a huge goes back to what we were saying. Yeah. Yeah. It goes back to what we were saying about Apollo and, you know, the angel of light and all that. Yeah. And then there's the whole fact of Jesus supposedly striking Paul blind. Where do we have evidence in the synoptic gospels that Jesus would ever strike somebody blind? Jesus opened the eyes of the blind. Jesus even read the Isaiah scroll which says, "I open the eyes of the blind, set liberty of the captives." He tells John the Baptist messengers when they come to him, "Are you the one we've been waiting for?" He says, "Go and tell John what you have seen and heard. The lame walk, the deaf hear, the blind eyes are opened, and the poor have the gospel preached to them." That's how you know the Messiah has come. Not because he gives people demons and strikes them blind. It's crazy. Right. Right. Is is turning the gospel of Jesus on its head. And and like the irony is is that the the people who read this, they can't recognize that it's it's a totally different Jesus that Paul is preaching. I think a lot of it gets down to the cultural and physical addiction to meat. So they don't they you know people who are really in that momentum of eating meat and the belief in it as a biblically sound concept want to I mean anything that agrees with that they're basically going to go along with it. And Paul you'll see is the main enemy of this kind of vegetarian original Jesus movement. and it's often his work is often cited against the vegetarian edenic ideal. So I'm going to share my screen now and if you can believe it after that presentation we still have a whole lot more Paul arguments coming at you. And uh I want to start guys with how Jesus appointed his disciples. How we know that Jesus qualified somebody to be his apostle. What were the standards Jesus set? And here we have from Acts 1:15. Peter is being quoted here. Therefore, it is necessary that all of the men who have accompanied accompanied us all the time that the Lord Jesus went in and out among us, beginning with the baptism of John until the day that he's been taken up from us. One of these must become a witness with us of his resurrection. So, they put forward two men, Barabus and Ma Matias or Matias. And Matias is the one who's chosen because he meets both of Jesus's criteria. You have to be present. You have to have been present at his baptism by John when he was anointed as the Messiah and his a witness to his resurrection in some form. And so again, Paul doesn't meet either of those criteria. So this begs the question, did Jesus need a special apostle to the Gentiles? Because that's Paul's entire argument, right? Jesus appointed his 12 to go to the houses of Israel, but me, he appointed me to be his chosen apostle to the Gentiles. Well, let's look at this. Matthew 28. But the 11 disciples proceeded to Galilee to the mountain which Jesus had designated. When they saw him, they worshiped him, but some were doubtful. And Jesus came up and spoke to them, saying, "All authority has been given to me in heaven and on earth. Go therefore and make disciples of all the nations, ethnos, baptizing them in the name of the Father, Son, and Holy Spirit, teaching them to observe all that I commanded you. And lo, I'm with you to the end of the age. So, lot of problems here. Number one, Jesus clearly commisss his 12 disciples, his 11, to go to the ethnos, the nations, which is the Gentiles. He says, "Teach them to observe all that I have commanded you." And as we know, Paul never teaches anybody ever to observe something that Jesus commanded. Paul never mentions a teaching of Jesus. He ignores all of Jesus's salvation teachings and just gives his own salvation teachings. He doesn't teach anybody to observe what Jesus commanded. And so here again is the word ethnos in Greek is literally the word for Gentiles. So Jesus commissioned his disciples to go to the Gentiles. So please someone explain to me why he needed a 13th apostle to the Gentiles doesn't really add up. The whole the whole situation with Paul like not sharing a single one of Jesus's teachings like that's huge. you know, when you're when you're studying a text, realizing what is in the text is one thing, but realizing what is missing. Um, and it really says something about him that he's never he never quotes Jesus, not once. He he never um interprets any of his sayings or any of his teachings. And it's it's kind of like that pastor that I was talking about at the very beginning of this uh presentation where the pastor's like, "Oh, yeah, we love Jesus." And then you go to his church and you don't hear Jesus quote it all say he wants. Yeah. It's the same thing like how can you claim to be a follower of his? How can you claim to to love him? And you know Jesus doesn't say you know love me by by not quoting me. He says love me by keeping my commandments. Right? If you love me keep my commandments. And I don't know if Paul taught this specifically, but it's very common in mainline modern Pauline Christianity that actually trying to follow Yeshua's commandments in hope and in yearning of salvation and communion of God is actually one thing that will send you to hell because you're trying to earn your way to heaven. It's filthy rags. It's filthy rags. But I mean, confessing and believing in Jesus as your Lord and Savior, that's not trying to earn your way to heaven. But anyways, this doctrine has morphed into something that is actively encouraging people not to follow Jesus. Mhm. Crazy, man. Yeah. That's that's the quickest way to get called a servant of the devil is to tell people to obey Jesus. The devils don't like it, man. Man, it's like those Robert Breaker clips we played, Erin, right? Have you heard Robert Breaker, David? No. No, I have. Oh, man. Have we got a show for you after this is done? This guy is like the ultimate champion of Paul. And he just just bangs on about how we should follow Paul and not Jesus because Jesus handed off the torch to Paul and everything Jesus did before that, you know, null and void. Now wonder Paul's ministry, not Jesus's ministry. and he rebukes people for following Jesus. It's just the funniest thing to watch. But I mean, we're on the Jesus Way podcast here, right? And our message is very simple. We just follow the teachings of Jesus. That's our Christianity. And so, we mention countless teachings of Jesus every single podcast. And can you imagine you're traveling to the nations, writing letters to all these churches all over the place, and you never once quote what your supposed master taught about salvation. Maybe it's because Paul knew deep down that his gospel was contradicting Jesus's gospel. Because Paul says, "All you got to do be forgiven, confess, and believe." That's it. And Jesus is like, "Hey guys, if you do not forgive your brothers, your heavenly father will not forgive you." No stipulations there, right? Judge and you'll be judged. The measure you give is the measure you get is the measure you get back. This is God's universe. It's built on balance and mutual reciprocity which the the Jews or the the Hebrew people called justice, right? Mishpat zaka, righteousness, justice. This is the basis of God's law and Jesus championed it all through his gospel. And you have Paul come along and he's like, "Oh, the law was a curse that Jesus abolished. We're not under that moldy old law anymore. We're under grace and faith alone." It's like, are are we going to be so quick to just accept this guy's message? So that brings us to the next point of whose gospel was Paul preaching in all of his many writings. Paul never once quotes a single teaching of Jesus. Has any other disciple in history ever gone without quoting the teachings of their master even once? On that day Paul says according to my gospel. God judges the secrets of men by Christ Jesus. And again in Romans 16. Now to him who's able to strengthen you according to my gospel. Very strange. I thought this was Jesus's gospel, Paul. And again in second Timothy, remember Jesus Christ risen from the dead as preached in my gospel. So these are some big red flags. Why are you calling Jesus's gospel your gospel? So now we get to some of the obvious salvation contradictions between Paul's sotiology and Yeshua's. And I think we touched on this already, but let's just go through the basics here because it bears repeating, right? Paul says, "For Christ is the end of the law to everyone who believes." So if you believe in Jesus, whatever that means, the the law is done. It's abolished. It's over for you. You're under grace now. But Jesus says, "Nope, I didn't come to abolish the law, but to fulfill it." Matthew 5:17. Christ has redeemed us from the curse of the law, having become a curse for us. Jesus says, "No, Paul. Whoever disobys even the least commandment of the law will be called least in the kingdom, which is what you're called. Whoever does and teaches the Torah will be called great in the kingdom." And again, Paul says, "Having abolished the law in his flesh." No, no, no. Sorry, Paul. Until heaven and earth pass away, not the smallest letter or stroke shall pass from the law until all is accomplished. Which means all righteousness, the law is meant to lead us to righteousness in the kingdom of God. So Jesus says until we're under we're fully living in the kingdom, the law cannot and will not pass away because Jesus understood God's laws are eternal. And this might be something Paul clearly didn't understand. But there's this interesting distinction here, guys, right? where Christians will say, "Well, Paul was talking about the lurggical commandments only." You know, the 613 man-made laws and don't wear two types of cloth and all that. And we agree, yes, those are man-made commandments, not of God. But Jesus also didn't believe those were the commandments of God. Because Jesus questioned and opposed those many times, even correcting them on occasion, saying, "You've heard it was said in the Hebrew Bible. Leviticus, Exodus, Deuteronomy says, "An eye for an eye, a tooth for a tooth, but I say to you a new commandment. Love your enemies. Bless those who persecute you." That's Jesus as a Jewish rabbi correcting the Hebrew Bible, saying, "I don't agree with this. This is not the right way. Do the opposite of what the Hebrew Bible says." He was always referring to the spiritual laws, the heart of the law, which really are the ten commandments. And so, do we have any evidence that Paul talked about the ten commandments as something negative? Well, 2 Corinthians 3:7. Now, if the ministry of death carved in letters on stone came with such glory, blah blah blah. So, there you go. all called the Ten Commandments a ministry of death carved into letters of stone. That's the commandments Moses brought down, right? And then he also says in 1 Corinthians 15, the sting of death is sin and the power of sin is the law. So Paul believed, as scholars know, that the law enabled or empowered sin and that's why Jesus had to do away with it. And so while Paul calls the ten commandments a ministry of death, Jesus ironically called them the only way to eternal life. So here again, the way of life versus the way of death. Paul is always representing the way of death in every verse we come across. And Jesus always represented the way of life. Jesus is asked by a a rich man, what must I do to have eternal life? Jesus says, "If you would enter eternal life, keep the commandments." And if there was any confusion about which commandments he's talking about, he lists them. Don't kill, don't steal, don't lie, don't commit adultery, and love your neighbor as yourself. This is the only answer Jesus ever gave about salvation. And so, that's why we have a big problem with Christianity teaching that the way to salvation is not by keeping the commandments and not by loving your neighbor, but it's what Paul said, "Confess and believe." Jesus literally said, "You leave the commandments of God and hold to the traditions of men." I mean, come on, guys. Is that not what Christianity has done? Yeah. I'm I'm glad that you brought that out in 2 Corinthians 3:7. Um I mean, the irony that Paul is so obsessed with death and that's like the basis of his whole ministry, his his baptism unto death, his crucifixion. You've you've died with Messiah and all this. and that the irony is so thick there with that. Um, but yeah, I mean, and and then we just looked earlier at what Isaiah 28 said about this uh covenant of death and and agreement with with Paul. Yeah. Lots of problems here that I mean, if you if you really want to follow Yeshua, I know you born and raised Christian, your pastor's always told you Paul's great, Paul's the guy, but I mean, come on. Are you going to risk anything by just pausing to question some of these things? Paul called the Ten Commandments a ministry of death carved into letters on stone, but Jesus called that very same thing the only way to eternal life. Might there possibly be a contradiction here? I think it's worth investigating. Now, what about salvation? Paul's ministry, as we said, was confess with your mouth Jesus is Lord, believe in your heart God raised him from the dead, and you'll be saved. So basically, if you say these words that Jesus is your Lord and you believe in your brain that an event happened called the resurrection, you'll be saved. So potentially uh if you didn't do one of these things, you wouldn't be saved. Not totally sure. What if I confess with my mouth Jesus is my Lord? But you know, I wasn't there. So it feels dishonest of me to say I know for sure Jesus raised from the dead. I'm just trying to be honest. I'm open to it, but I can't know because I wasn't there. I don't want to lie, God. And God's like, "No, sorry. You're supposed to believe an event you weren't there for. I'm going to send you to hell forever." There's just so many logical paradoxes and fallacies here we can joke about of this salvation message. And funny enough, when I brought this up to Wes in our debate in January, I said, "Is this not what Christianity teaches?" And they immediately saw the rock and the hard place they're caught in. So, they were like, "Well, well, it's um it's not only that, but it's more than that." And I said, "Okay, what what is the more than that? if it's not confess and believe in the resurrection, what is the third thing that you have to do to constitute salvation? And they said, uh, repent. Said, okay, so but Paul never said you have to repent as a way of salvation. So are you are you kind of combining Jesus with Paul? Like why why combine Jesus with Paul? Just go to Jesus. You can't make it make sense. And Jesus said, "Nope. Not everyone who confesses me as Lord, Lord enters my kingdom. Only the one who does." That's good works, the will of my father. Jesus's gospel was a gospel of works, not faith alone. What about forgiveness without blood? Paul says, "Without the shedding of blood, there is no forgiveness of sins." Period. End of sentence. Well, Jesus didn't seem to think so because in Luke 7:47, he says, "I tell you, this woman has many, many sins, and they're all forgiven for she loved much." that he who's forgiven little loves little. And then he looks at her and says again, "Your sins are forgiven." So maybe Luke left out the part where Jesus slit somebody's throat and offered a blood meat sacrifice on the altar in between these sentences. But I'm highly skeptical of that. I think Jesus meant what he said. Your sins are forgiven because you love much. Love covers a multitude of sins, right? So where is Paul getting this bizarre pagan idea that God can't forgive people without violent bloodshed? There is nothing more antithetical to the gospel of Jesus than that. And as you say, David, there is nothing that represents the way of death more than claiming that the infinite omnipotent Lord of the universe needs to violently murder something innocent just so he can forgive his children. It's like, how does an evil act subtract another evil? Right? You've sinned. You're a bad person. So, I'm going to do something bad to forgive you of what's bad. This is not the doctrines Jesus taught. Jesus said, "Overcome evil with good. Do not resist evil with evil." Right? That's what Paul is basically saying that God does. Imagine a king of our earthly kingdom saying this. I will not forgive anyone in my territory without the shedding of blood. Everyone would be like, "That person is a psychopathic tyrant." They would flee the city overnight. Yeah. That is not a leader or a king who that that leader or king rules by fear and bloodshed, not by love and righteousness, right? Yeah. And here's the other thing that that bothers me. Sorry to cut you off, David. But the last point on this is as we just said, Jesus corrected the record on eye for an eye, right? But all of Christian theology today, Pauline theology is built on eye for eye. Christians tell you when you try to make them explain this absurd illogical doctrine that an omnipotent God needs bloodshed to forgive. How is that possible? How does that make sense? They say, "Well, you see, uh, debt must be paid. The sin must be atoned for, blood for blood, eye for eye. So, you know, you sin, God has to do something sinful to offset the sin." It's like, didn't Jesus rebuke that idea openly in his sermon on the mount? This is crazy. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, when you and and billions of people believe this, but when you break it down to its simplest terms, it it becomes ludicrous. Like, it it just reveals how crazy and double-minded it is to hold to some of these. And it's like when um when when Yeshua was was preaching and he was in that in that house and they opened up the roof and lay lowered that paralytic down and he told the man, "Your sins are forgiven." And uh you know the Pharisees kind of grumbled against that and he said you know which is easier to say your sins are forgiven or say rise up and walk and and he healed the guy and the guy walked off. Yeah. You know there there was no you know Jesus didn't say like hey hold on a second let me go get nailed to the cross and then after that I'll be able to forgive your sins. He said, "No, he forgave his sins in that moment." And then he proved it by healing the man and the man got up and carried his bed off. And right, you know, the evidence is there. Jesus didn't need to die on the cross to forgive sins. He he could forgive sins just before that ever happened, right? He didn't have to cut a chicken's throat and twirl a chicken around his head like the Orthodox Jews do. He just forgave sins. Yeah. You know, on on that topic, a lot of Christians listening to this might be saying, "Well, what about the last supper when Jesus says, "This is my body broken for you. This is my blood of the new covenant um for the forgiveness of sins." And here's the thing about that passage in Luke, the same passage in our oldest manuscripts has those portions omitted. Meaning, some of our oldest manuscripts don't have the is my body, this is my blood, but it doesn't say that is broken for you, that is shed for you for the forgiveness of sins. that is added later by Greek scribes. And so in Matthew's version of it, scholars also likely knowing that Luke kind of was using a bit of Matthew and Mark, likely that's true for Matthew as well, but we can't know because we have this massive missing gap in our manuscript tradition. We don't have really any manuscripts. We have like little fragments up until the 3rd century. So hundreds of years of basically silence in the manuscript tradition. So all kinds of changes could have been made in there. But one of the criteria of scholarship in textual criticism is called the criterion of dissimilarity. Another one that we know is the criterion of embarrassment. Christians love to quote this one, right? When when they're trying to prove something from an apologetic standpoint, they'll say, "Well, if it's embarrassing, it's true." So, they just try to prove things are embarrassing to say, "Look, you have to believe it because it's embarrassing." And it's like, well, I can use that same criteria to absolutely eviscerate Pauline theology and biblical inherency and all kinds of Christian doctrines because there's all kinds of embarrassing things that the church fathers and Greek scribes and the whole Christian tradition has tried to cover over and harmonize over the centuries. And this is one of them. Jesus in the synoptics, the what scholars call the pre-Easter Jesus. So the version of Jesus when he was a real man living amongst normal people before he was crucified and resurrection and all that this is what people thought about him. This is what he said. And in the pre-Easter Jesus you get absolutely not a trace of mention about blood atonement or sacrifice or any of that. No penal substitution. You just get the basic hardline salvation teachings. Repent and God forgives you. You want to be forgiven? Forgive others. You don't help the least of these, you're not getting into my kingdom. That's it. And so then all of a sudden at the end of it, he's like, "Hey guys, it's all about my blood. That's what it really was this whole time. I haven't mentioned it, but at the last second, I'm telling you." And so scholars look at that and say, "Yeah, that's very, very dissimilar from every other teaching we have of Jesus." And again, Luke's manuscripts omitted that, did not have that in the earliest manuscripts. So that's also very fishy. So we can see a lot of this Pauline theology making its way into the gospels over the centuries. And it's it's rife through the synoptics especially. So there's all kinds of you can't just say well it's in the New Testament so Jesus must have said it. It's absolutely not that simple. There are many things in the New Testament that scholars say there's almost no way that this traces back to Jesus. This is clearly a post Easter Jesus being inserted back into the text to validate evolving Christian theology across the centuries. So I just wanted to mention that. So, now we're getting into more of Paul's character. And this is one I have a big problem with is Paul's disrespect of Yeshua's 12 disciples. And I could do a whole presentation on this based on many passages from Paul that I believe I can prove definitively through the text itself. He was talking about, you know, those false apostles and all that. He was talking about the 12 or at the very least the 72 who Jesus appointed. But let's look at this passage. This infamous passage of Paul meeting James, Peter, and John and the 12 for the first time at Jerusalem. This is a passage, guys, I find so funny whenever I debate Christians on this and I say, "Can you show me any proof that the disciples approved of Paul?" And they say, "Oh, Galatians 2, when when they met Paul," it says, "They extended to me the right hand of fellowship." It's like, yeah, they were meeting Paul for the first time here. Are do you expect them to be like and like not be nice to him? Of course, they're they're loving. They're following Yeshua. They're doing what a disciple of Yeshua should do, which is to love everybody. So, they welcome Paul in and they haven't even heard any of this guy's teachings yet, probably. And so, they trying to get to know this guy and vet him a little bit. And so, here's how Paul himself accounts of this experience meeting the disciples. As for those who seemed to be important, whatever they were means nothing to me. God is no respector of persons. Those men added nothing to my message. James, Peter, and John, that was reputed to be pillars. Gave me and Barnabas the right hand of fellowship. When they recognized the grace that was given to me. When Peter came to Antioch, I opposed him to his face, cuz he was clearly in the wrong. For before certain men came from James, he was eating with the Gentiles. But when they came, he drew back and separated himself, fearing the circumcision party. And the rest of the Jews acted hypocritically along with him, so that even Barnabas was led astray by their hypocrisy. So there is so much here to unpack. But I think we can already see the meat and bones of it, right? Paul is accusing Peter. First of all, first of all, he's like, "Oh, those seem to be important disciples. Whatever they are, makes no difference to me. Oh, they walked with Jesus. big deal. They added nothing to my message. This is a narcissist, you guys. This is classic overt narcissism. And he goes on to say, "James, Peter, and John, they they loved me when they met me. They recognized the hand of God on me." And then Peter came to me and I posed into his face. What a crazy mindset to have about meeting the very appointed disciples of the Lord that you claim to follow. And he goes to Peter and calls him a hypocrite. all because he's eating with Gentiles. And Paul claims to know for sure that he was being a hypocrite. He was running away when James came because he didn't want James to see he was eating with Gentiles. It's like, well, maybe. Or maybe he was trying to be loving to this the new Gentile converts and he's going to sit with them and have some meal fellowship with them. And then when his his disciple posi comes, he goes and eats with them. And Paul sitting across the auditorium or whatever is looking at Peter just seething with judgment and that hypocrite. He goes over and opposes Peter who walked and talked with Jesus and suffered as a disciple of Jesus and opposes him to his face and then says all the rest of the disciples and the Jews there acted hypocritically as well so that even my right-hand man traveling companion Barnabas separated from me and agreed with the disciples. He became a hypocrite along with them. It's like, okay, so there's Paul calling the disciples of Jesus, even his own brother, James, Jesus's appointed successor, a hypocrite. I find that to be very problematic, you guys, from a character standpoint. Well, if you just look at what's being said, it's it's it should be pretty obvious that Paul lost the argument. Everybody salute those to him. You know, it was it was Paul on one side and everyone else on the other side. And these these men that came from James, they're they're not named, but this could have been family members of Jesus. It could have been other apostles. Um I I think what happened was just kind of looking at at the biblical narrative. I I think that Paul went to went to Jerusalem. They had this conference and James gave his four purity commands and then Paul goes back to Antioch. And uh and we know from first Corinthians he wasn't following the purity commands that James laid down. He was teaching them to eat meat sacrificed to idols. And I think I think Peter was sitting there eating with these these Gentiles not realizing that they were still eating. They were still engrossed in idolatry and eating this sacrificial idol meat. And these guys from James come and maybe they had a copy of First Corinthians and they were like, "Hey, have you seen what what Paul's writing?" And so Peter withdraws from table fellowship because of this. And now um Paul I mean this a lot of this what Paul's saying it to me it sounds like reactive abuse like just a a common narcissistic type of behavior where he's caught in the wrong and he's turning everyone else into the villain. But if you read between the lines he's admitting that he lost. He was the one that was rebuked. Yes. And to that point also Jesus said I think Matthew chapter 8 I want to say the famous passage where Jesus says if you have a problem with your brother if you have a grievance with your brother go to him in private first and try to resolve the dis the disagreement and then if he doesn't hear you then bring a church leader with you and try again. Then bring another brother and then if he still doesn't hear you then let him go along his way. But never did Jesus say, "If someone, if you have a disagreement with someone, oppose them to their face and call them a hypocrite in public. Embarrass them." It's like again, Paul either didn't hear about Jesus's teachings, which is a very bad foundation to start off on if you're claiming to be his chosen apostle. He either didn't know Jesus taught that or he didn't care that Jesus taught that. But those are the only two options, and both of them are very bad for Paul. All right, now we're getting into the real crux of the matter. Here is the biblical litmitness test for a false prophet. If you're a bibleelving Christian, here you go. Deuteronomy 18:21-22. You may say to yourself, "How can we recognize a word that the Lord has not spoken?" If a prophet speaks in the name of the Lord, but the thing does not take place or prove true, it is a word that the Lord has not spoken. The prophet has spoken it presumptuously, do not be afraid of the prophet. So, if something a prophet says doesn't come true, if they speak in the name of God, it doesn't happen. They're a false prophet. That's the Bible's standard. So, let's look at some of Paul's prophecies, shall we? 1 Thessalonians 4:15. Now pay close attention to this guys. Paul is very specific about this prophecy. There is no ambiguity here at all. According to the Lord's word, we tell you that we who are still alive. So pause. There it is. He is speaking for the Lord. As it says in Deuteronomy 18, according to the Lord's word, Paul is saying, we tell you that we who are still alive, who are left until the coming of the Lord, pause. False prophecy. End of story. Paul is saying we who are still physically alive are going to be left until the coming of the Lord. That did not happen. And then he says the dead in Christ will rise first. You know, then we'll be caught up in the air. For the Lord himself will come down from heaven again during their lifetime, guys, to those who are still alive with a loud command, the voice of an archangel and the trumpet call of God. And the dead in Christ will rise first. After that, we who are still alive and are left will be caught up together with them in the clouds to meet the Lord in the air. So, you cannot argue here that Paul was talking about people 2 to 3,000 years in the future using these uh plural pronouns, first personal pronouns, we and us, right? He's talking about those he's writing to. And he says very specifically, we who are alive right now, who are left until the coming of the Lord. None of these events happened in his life. God did not come down with a trumpet sound and an archangel and float everybody up into the sky to be resurrected into spiritual bodies like Paul said. None of that happened. Period. End of story. Paul is a false prophet. But let's keep digging. 1 Corinthians 7:25. This is what I mean, brothers. The appointed time has grown very short. Okay? 2,000 years is not very short. 2,000 years. If you're going to argue, oh, Paul was talking about a future rapture way off in the future in our day. Okay, why did he say the time has grown very short? Nobody in any period of history would assume 2,000 years is very short. From now on, let those who have wives live as though they had none. He also says, if you're a slave, don't worry about getting free. I think he says like if you're trying to get a a job, don't worry about it because Jesus is coming back any day now. For the present form of this world is passing away. No, it wasn't. And no, it didn't. 1 Corinthians 15. Look, I will tell you a mystery, a deep secret nosis which only I know. We will not all die. But we will all be changed in a moment in the twinkling of an eye at the last trumpet which never happened. But the trumpet will sound even though it didn't, and the dead will be raised even though they weren't. And we will all be changed. where this perishable body must put on imperishability and this mortal must put on immortality. So this was Paul's idea and we're going to unpack it more in a second here. But Paul's very specific prophecy which he spared no detail, right? Is that Jesus is coming back any second now. Don't even worry about getting married if you're engaged. Don't even worry about getting free if you're a slave because I'm telling you, we're going to be sucked up into heaven at the trumpet sound. archangels come down floating up with Christ and we will be transformed into a resurrected body just like Jesus. That's why he called Jesus the firstborn among many. He believed that God was creating this new kind of genus of spiritual beings that would rule and reign with Christ in the new and the new heaven or whatever. And so Paul's talking about escaping from earth in this prophecy. God's going to catch us up in the air. We're going to get the hell out of here guys any day now. And again, where do we see that in the teachings of Jesus? Did Jesus ever say, "We're going to get the hell out of here. We're going to escape. We're going to be caught up in the air, transformed." No. He said, "I tell you the truth. The kingdom of heaven is within you. The kingdom of heaven is already spread out across the earth, but men are unaware of it." And he was trying to do the exact opposite of what Paul is implying here. He was not trying to go from earth to heaven. Jesus was trying to bring heaven to earth. And he taught us how to do that through his teachings and commandments. Which is why he said, "Guys, if you love me, you've got to keep my commandments. You've got to love what I love. Or how can you ever call yourself my disciple? If you're trying to abandon this world to the evil powers and get the hell out of here before the last trumpet, how how are you my disciple? I want to bring heaven here. I want to res I want to rescue the suffering here and not just escape it and say, "Well, good luck to the rest of you." And this is what Christianity has become is this religion of escapism. All obsessed with the rapture in the end times and Jesus is coming back. I mean, we just saw this crazy prediction a few days ago, right guys? That and James, you might know more than I do, but like all these churches and mega pastors were predicting the second coming was going to happen on Wednesday or whatever. Yeah. the 23rd there was a b it went viral on Tik Tok and there was a a bunch of pastors and ministers with large followings that they didn't say they were 100% sure that the rapture was happening on the 23rd. They said they were 1 billion% sure. So I haven't seen their uh their thoughts or their statements since it didn't happen. But I saw something today about some guy who like sold his house and he was just like homeless now waiting for the rapture and he was like, "Oh, it didn't happen. What the heck?" Oh man, talk about this affects people's psychological health. Imagine if you're a child in a house where they're saying this is going to happen. You know, it's really impactful for a lot of people. Oh, yeah. The rapture was the first, you know, crack in the in the wall for me with Christianity. I first deconstructed from the rapture because I got so sick and tired of this message of escapism. And it's all fear-based. It's like, oh man, the Antichrist is coming. He's going to clean the house for seven years. And if you're here, you are  man. You better hope you're going to heaven or else you're going to have to survive the great tribulation. Pre-trip, post-trip, mid-trip. I'm just like, this is insanity. There was a guy named Harold Camping. Maybe you know him, David. He was like a I think a Baptist famous Baptist minister who was like famous for predicting the end times, the second coming over and over and over. And literally right outside my house in San Jose, California when I was like 17 or something. I maybe I'll put the picture on the screen because I have it on my phone somewhere. Uh he had this giant billboard he bought saying that the rapture is happening on May 18th, 2009. So it was like a month or two before that date. And it's like the countdown every day they're counting down. I'm just like, these people are going to embarrass themselves again after having done this multiple times. How do you keep coming back, licking your wounds, and starting over after being humiliated time and time again? It's like maybe we should just follow the teachings of Jesus, guys. Maybe we've gotten a little bit lost in the weeds here. Yeah. If there if there is a rapture, it's the wicked that are raptured, you know. And the in the parable of the wheat and the tears is the tears that are bundled together and snatched up by the angels and burned in fire. It's not it's not the righteous. Oh, it's a great point. You know, ironically enough, in John uh 10:12 when uh Yeshua is given this parable about himself being the the good shepherd and he he speaks about the wolf again, remember the the ravenous wolf. says, "The hired hand and not a shepherd who doesn't own the sheep sees the wolf coming and leaves the sheep and flees. The wolf snatches the sheep and scatters them." That word for snatch is harpo uh harpuzo, which is the uh the word for for rapture. So, wow. Again, you see the the this uh rapture is connected to this wolf, this Benjaminite wolf. Again, this false prophet. So many inversions, man. So, there we have it. Paul was a false prophet without question. And Jesus warned us seven times about a false prophet who would come after him. I'm going to air on the side of what Jesus warned us about. But even further than Paul being a false prophet, we have big problems with Paul's personal character. And we're going to unpack this in a big way for you guys. Listen to this passage from Paul in 2 Corinthians. Again, I say, let no one think me foolish. So, he's like, don't have a bad opinion about me, but if you do, receive me as foolish that I may boast a little bit. What I am saying, I'm not saying as the Lord would, but as in foolishness in this confidence of boasting. Since many boast according to the flesh, I will boast also. Are they Hebrews? So am I. Are they Israelites? So am I. Are they descendants of Abraham? So am I. Are they servants of Christ? I speak as if insane. But I more so. In far more labors, in far more imprisonments, beaten times without number. Often in danger of death. Five times I received from the Jews 39 lashes. Three times I was beaten with rods. Once I was stoned, three times I was shipwrecked. A night and day I've spent in the deep. So, not only is Paul boasting about himself, which Jesus said not to do. Jesus said, "Humble yourself and you'll be exalted." Uh, if you exalt yourself, you'll be humbled. In the kingdom, the last will be first. Right? Jesus told parables about humbling yourself like the publican and the tax collector. Showing that the publican who humbled himself and asked for forgiveness and didn't brag about his accomplishments like the Pharisee. Jesus said, "That man goes up justified before God." Why? because he wasn't prideful, bragging about his accomplishments. So, here's Paul being boastful and bragging about his accomplishments. And then, as far as I'm concerned, y'all, all of this after I'm I'm more of a servant of Christ than his own disciples. He he admits here how insane that sounds, right? I speak as if insane. I'm more so. And he goes into this tirade about bragging about all the times he's been beaten. And it's like, how could you be more obviously lying than this? Nobody survives five rounds of 39 lashes. Nobody survives being stoned. Like, how do you survive being stoned? That's the death penalty under Jewish law. People stone you to kill you, not just to rough you up a little bit and teach you a lesson. Better stop preaching that Jesus guy or we'll stone you halfway again. It's like, no, it's a death penalty. He I survived that. I was shipwrecked, beaten with rods three times. How do you survive being beaten with rods? Like, this is crazy that Paul expected anyone to believe him. But he's so desperate for approval and attention because, as we know, unlike the kind of fake history told in Acts, Paul was utterly rejected by everybody he preached to through his own letters, in his own testimony. The the historioggraphy of of Acts does not line up with Paul's writings at all. And scholars have studied this for a long time. Almost everything in the Acts narrative contradicts what Paul said happened, such as going right up to Jerusalem after his encounter with Jesus. In Acts, Paul says, "I did not go up to Jerusalem after I met Jesus, but I spent three years in the deserts of Arabia, getting my private nos from Jesus." And so in in Paul's letters, unlike Acts, which scholars call the version of Paul in Acts, they call it hero Paul for the purpose of knowing this is clearly not a historical document telling us what really happened. This is like a a positive pmic towards Paul, right? Trying to make Paul look good and look like a hero and look at all these great things he did. Because the fact remains in Paul's day, nobody accepted his message. Definitely not the Jewish Christian Nazarines. They tried to according to Acts, they tried to kill him like three times for his blasphemies. And not even the Gentiles accepted Paul. In all of Paul's letters, he's basically begging people to like him and accept his message. even uh the letter to Rome, right? To the Romans. Christians will say that Paul started the church at Rome, the Catholic Church, and Peter and Paul started it together, which is obviously false because Paul wrote a letter to the Roman church, being like, "Guys, please, you got to believe me. My theology is true." And he writes this super long dissertation, begging them to accept his message and accept him as an apostle. And he's doing it again here in 2 Corinthians, bragging and trying to prove how great he is. Oh, look how much I've suffered. I'm the best of all the apostles cuz I've suffered more than them. So, it's like this is a narcissist who's clearly hijacking the Jesus movement to make himself look like a hero and give himself a purpose probably because this poor guy was tremendously traumatized from being a serial killer of Christians. That was Paul's day job, which Paul admits in his letters and Acts admits Paul was going around murdering Nazarines and then he converts to Nazarene Christianity. You think you might have a little bit of guilt and trauma that you try to pacify by giving yourself a purpose and a reason for living. I understand why Paul became this way. I really do. And I don't fault him for it. Who I do fault is more so the Roman church fathers who came long after Paul and Jesus who used Paul and completely even twisted his teachings into a whole another monster. Trinitarianism, virgin birth, perpetual virginity, all the stuff that even Paul would have disagreed with and and did disagree with. Paul is clear that Jesus was born after the flesh, born of as a son of David. And Paul didn't believe in this demigod Jesus who's the second person of the Trinity. So like Paul's teachings were done some injustice, too. And we don't just like squarely blame all the travesties of Christianity on Paul, but it does all trace back to Paul. And that is the unfortunate fact is that this guy who was probably really well-meaning and wanted to be to do good was too spiritually immature to carry this message. He was clearly deeply narcissistic, which we'll prove to you here in the next slide. And he clearly was not embodying the teachings of Yeshua. And that's the big problem. Yeah. Just in in that passage, like he sounds, you know, he says he's he sounds like someone insane. He really does sound insane. You know, if you if you go through you read that you read those chapters of of, you know, the 10th and 11th chapter out loud, it it sounds crazy. And also, Erin, you touched on how he was rejected by all of these churches, rejected by the Nazarines. Who was he finally accepted by that basically blew his message up? Arch heretic number one. Yep. the the biggest heretic arguably in Christian history. Marcion, the the founder of the Gnostic tradition. Yep. Yep. He he he's the one who basically took Paul's writings and gathered them and canonized them. And then the protoodox church took Marcon's work on Paul and made that the basically the Orthodox cannon. Yeah. And I was just going to say Christians love to to pull out that card and and accuse everybody everything they don't understand of beingnosticism. You know what? You know, like, oh yeah, you're you're an Edomite. That's Gnostic. Or the Gnostic is Nazarines or whatever. It's just like a it's like calling somebody a heretic. It doesn't really carry any weight. But the ironic thing about it is all of the Gnosticism is based upon Paul. If if it wasn't for Paul, there would be no Gnostic history in the church because it's all Pauline theology. And it's really the kettle calling the pot black. Yeah, I was I was literally going to make the same point, David. Christians will use this catch-all term. Oh, that's gnostic. Oh, we just throw that into the garbage bin of gnosticism because we know that that's wrong. And it's like, oh, the irony. Oh, the irony. Marcion is the, you know, championed Marcianism, the first gnostic. He's the founder of nnosticism. And what was who was his champion? Who was his favorite guy? Paul. He was the first guy who accepted Paul and said, "Wait a minute. This guy Paul, he had got some stuff right. He was dropping some bars." And he puts together, as scholars and historians know, the very first Christian cannon ever was put together by Marcion, the first Gnostic, who was the biggest fan of Paul who's probably ever lived other than maybe uh Robert Breaker. And uh yeah, where Christianity ends up being based upon is the teachings of Paul, which were also the basis of allnosticism. So when I tell Christians, they're like, "Oh, you're gnostic." I say, "Oh, no, no, no. I reject orthodox Christianity because it is gnostic." Like, "Well, that's insane. We're not gnostic." You share almost all the same fundamental beliefs asnosticism. Duality, heaven good, earth bad, let's escape, let's get out of here, spiritual bodies, physical bodies, all this platonic dualism. That'snosticism. And that's what Christianity is also based upon because the the Catholic Church fathers were fighting the Gnostics for hundreds of years trying to wrestle Paul away from them and say, "No, Paul's our guy and you got him wrong." And so in that fight, you become what you hate, right? What you resist persists. You always become like that which you hate. And the Christian Catholic Church became essentially Gnosticism 2.0. And the Gnostics were a tradition before the Orthodox Catholic Church was. It was first the Nazarene Jewish Christians who were the only legitimate apostolic tradition as we've talked about on the podcast and then came the Gnostics, the second Christian tradition and that was a populist movement and then came the Catholic Orthodox Church upon which all Christianity today is based. So I find it to be very laughable from a historical perspective that Catholics say we're the original true apostolic tradition. Christians say the same thing. It's like there's literally no history or proof at all that traces back to any of the apostles of Jesus. It's all just a bunch of blind assertions that have no proof to back them up. And when you really unpack it, you see that orthodoxy came out ofnosticism almost like a tumor falling off the body. Like that's what the a Catholic Church was based upon in the very beginning. So, we have some interesting infographics here to show you guys the gravity of this, of Paul's boasting and narcissism. Scholars know that of the 13 letters attributed to Paul, only seven of them were definitively written by Paul. And this is like one of the most consensus opinions in scholarship, secular scholarship, Christian scholarship is a whole another story. But look at these undisputed Pauline letters. occurrences of the word boast in the undisputed letters. 10 times in Romans, 12 in 1 Corinthians, 29 in 2 Corinthians. Go on a boasting rampage in 2 Corinthians. Four in Galatians, two in Philippians, three in Thessalonians, and one in Phileiman. Total of 61 usages of the word boast. juxtapose that by the letters that scholars know were not written by Paul but are sort of second century forgeries pseudo Pauline letters and it's only used one time the word boast so talk about an inconsistency in authorship right this is not how a human author would work this is how scholars and and historians and philologists and so forth can identify authors is because there's always a very consistent um literary form that writers use. You can detect it by their word usages, the types of words they use, how they use them, sentence structure, linguists can unpack these things at a very high level. And so when you do that with Paul, it's very clear which books he did and did not write. And so in to that point, among one of the many reasons why scholars now reject that the book of Hebrews was written by Paul is the utter lack of personal pronouns like all his other writings. The author of Hebrews, whoever they were, uses about 1.3 personal pronouns per thousand words. Paul's seven epistles contain an average of 18.2 personal pronouns per thousand words, which is a 13x increase. As one scholar has pointed out, Paul uses twice as many personal pronouns in the first chapter of Romans alone than the entire book of Hebrews combined. So here's a pie chart showing you the difference. Those are the seven undisputed letters in blue and the disputed letters in red, which scholars know Paul did not write. So although these authors were doing very well at trying to sound like Paul and carry his theology forward, there's things that we can detect that are obvious red flags, showing that this was not the same author. Another one, by the way, is second century Greek words that do not appear in Paul's letters. This is another big criterion in textual criticism is when you read these pseudo Pauline letters, you get all these second century unique words that don't exist in the first century and that Paul never used in his seven writings, seven letters because he was writing in the first century. So like this is how the the tradition works, right? Paul comes along, everyone starts basing their theology on Paul. And then that theology naturally evolves and adapts over time. And so they need writings to justify this evolving theology. And so people write forged letters. Okay? And Christians always bash onnosticism for being, you know, all the Gnostic texts, oh, those are forgeries. It's like, um, the New Testament is absolutely bursting at the seams with forgeries. And yet it's just ignored and conveniently never spoken about in Christian circles. But this is obviously not the same author of Hebrews as the writings of Paul. We have seven very consistent letters and then this totally inconsistent uh letter to the Hebrews which again uses all these unique words and doesn't use personal pronouns. So we're not talking about the same author. But now let's compare this with other New Testament writers. Okay. So we have the blue is the seven undisputed letters. Red is the six disputed. And then in the green we have the other epistles. James, 1 Peter, 2 Peter, 1 John through third John, and Jude. And let's compare the usage of personal pronouns. I, me, my. Okay? Do you see a noticeable difference between the colors here? Paul is like off the charts talking about himself all the time. I, me, my, I, this, I, that, my gospel, my gospel, my gospel. And you compare that to any other author in the New Testament and they all use far less personal pronouns. And so even just beyond the forgery conversation, like look at how much more Paul talked about himself than other first and second century authors. That's a problem. That's narcissism, my friends. This is one of the first criterion in applied psychology for identifying narcissism is a narcissist will talk about themselves adnauseium, incessantly. They will brag about themselves both overtly and covertly. Sort of like how Paul says, "Oh, my brothers, trust me. I am the least of the saints." Okay, that's called passive bragging, right? He's trying to lump himself in with the saints. He's trying to sneak in the back door and like, "Guys, trust me, I'm the least of all the saints here." But what that implies is, "I'm a saint." You see that? That's how narcissism works. They don't want to show their hand all the time. So, they do like backhanded bragging a lot. And you see all of these, you know, classifications of narcissism rampant in Paul's writings. And again, the most notable one is just how much does somebody talk about themselves? And that doesn't necessarily mean everyone who talks about themselves a lot is a narcissist, but it means they're probably leaning towards it, or they most likely are. It's not a trait you find in humble people that just never stop talking about themselves as Paul does in all his letters. And this is an interesting one, guys. This is positive and negative statements about the law in Paul's epistles. This is another kind of tactic of narcissists, right? Is they tell you what you want to hear so they can persuade you with whatever they're trying to sell you. And so Paul famously says all these negative things about the law, the Torah. And yet Christians will say that's not true. In Romans, he says some good things about the law. He says the law is good. And to that I say yes he does. Well that's because Romans is the only letter where Paul is writing to a mixed audience of Jews and Gentiles at the church in Rome. And so because Paul knows he's writing to a large audience of Jews, he can't just talk the law all the time like he normally does to his Gentile audiences. So he adds in some positive claims about the law, but he still talks negatively about it more than twice as much. And to your point, David, it is kind of funny to read Romans from this perspective because it feels like you're reading like an insane person who's contradicting themselves all the time. Paul will literally be like, "Oh, the law is great and we should obey it and it's a curse that Jesus abolished." And you're like, "Dude, which one is it, bro?" Like, he's just trying to sort of soften the blow of all his criticisms to these Jews. And that's a very classic trait of narcissists, right? Well, he's also in the book of Romans, he's talking about he's preparing to go to Jerusalem to meet with the apostles also. So, he's, you know, that's the last letter before he goes to Jerusalem. So, I think he's doing that also to try and get back in the good graces of of James and and Peter and those guys. So, that that could have something to do with it also. But, yeah, I mean, it's it's night and day. Just look at you know he the only other letter he says anything good is that one time in Galatians he says something good about the law that's it and when these Christians are trying to say that oh Paul taught you know taught we should keep the law they always cite something from Romans always every time right in the earliest records of the Ebonyim and the Nazarines the Jewish Christian sects Epipanius and both record that they specifically accused accused Paul I think too says this they accused Paul of being an apostate from the law meaning some a Jew who forsaked the law essentially right abandoned the law and preached against it that's called an apostate which is like the ultimate sort of crime in Jewish law is to be an apostate of the law and then on top of that they also called him a false prophet so it's like these are the two worst possible designations you could give to somebody and all of the Jewish Christians of which Jesus was a Jew All his first disciples were Jews. All the Jewish Christian groups for centuries maintained that Paul was an apostate and a false prophet. And they were the ones who actually walked and talked with Jesus. The Nazarines actually held the bloodline of Jesus's family and they said Paul was an apostate. Maybe that should raise some red flags for us too, right? So, I'll just kind of buzz through this really quick so people can get an understanding of what Paul was exactly prophesying was happening and kind of what his mindset was about this end times prophecy. he was obsessed with. Paul understood Jesus's resurrection as the transformation or the metamorphosis of flesh and blood human being into what he calls a lifegiving spirit. Such a change involved putting off the body like clothing and putting on a new spiritual body with the with the old one being left behind. So, this is a very specific prophecy of what Paul thought would happen. And this is kind of why the rapture theology in um all the end times movies and Kurt Cameron and stuff, they always show people's clothes being left behind because like it's be weird to show like a saggy, wrinkly body being left behind, you know? So they do they downplay a bit, but like this is all traces back to Paul. This this crazy cartoonish rapture idea is really goes back to Paul. And Christians have tried to stretch Paul's writings to say, well, you know, it looks like he totally falsely prophesied, but he was really secretly talking about what would happen 2,000 years in the future. So, it's actually a future event that wasn't going to happen in his day. And that's what he really meant. There's no question Paul thought it was going to happen in his day. And none of these things, old body being left behind, transformed in the air, none of these things happen. There's there's no other way to argue it, right? And what's true really matters. That's why I bang on about this. That's why this topic, I'm so passionate about it because what is true really matters. God is truth, right? And so if something is not true, it is not of God. Period. And Paul said a lot of things that are unquestionably false and not true. So we don't judge or hate Paul for that. We love Paul and we forgive Paul for his sins. But it doesn't change the fact that he said these things and believed they would happen. And all of Christian theology today is based on those teachings. Okay, this is where we'll end for today because this is another huge point and you kind of touched on this David in your slides, but let's just unpack it a little bit deeper here. Jesus rebukes one of the seven churches in Asia for eating meat sacrificed to idols, a practice Paul explicitly allowed and participated in himself. Jesus tells the church in Leodis that because of their works, because their works are lukewarm, he will spew them out of his mouth. Then he admonishes them to repent and tells them that he disciplines them because he loves them. In Revelation 20, Jesus says that all shall stand before the great book of life and shall be judged solely according to their works. And again, Paul said, "We're saved by faith alone apart from works." Jesus never makes any mention of anyone needing to confess him as Lord or believe he was resurrected. My reward is with me to give every man according to his confession and believe. Oh, sorry guys. I misread that. According to his works. Oh, that's weird. Didn't Paul say we're saved by faith alone apart from works and by no man can be saved by works? H I don't know, guys. It's crazy, but it seems like that might be a contradiction. And he goes on to say again in Revelation 20:12, "Every man will be judged according to their works." And then again in Revelation 2:23, "I will give unto every one of you according to your works." So three times in Revelation, I think once or twice in Matthew and once in John, Jesus explicitly says he will judge everyone according to their works. And that's why he says if you don't love the least of these, you're not getting into my kingdom. You get it? So, how did we get to this Christianity that says, "Oh, your works are filthy rags." It's all about believing in your brain that Jesus rose from the dead and died for your sins. You just I'm sorry. You don't get it from the mouth of Jesus. You cannot find me one single Christian axiom today. This Pauline theology, you cannot find me one of them in the mouth of Jesus. And it would be a problem if even one of them was missing from the mouth of Jesus, right? But that's not the situation we're in. Not even one of them is found in the mouth of Jesus. And so, isn't this sound a lot like what Jesus warned us about would happen. Now, Paul claims to be God's chosen apostle of Jesus Christ. He says, "From Paul, chosen by God to be an apostle of Christ Jesus to God's people who live in Ephesus." So, this is the letter to the Ephesians, which most scholars believe is a forgery. But nonetheless, something important about the forged letters of Paul is that because Paul was so hated and rejected in his day, he had a really bad reputation to clean up, right? And when Paul's letters got hot in the second century, all these gentile Christians are like, "Man, we got to like rescue Paul from his own reputation." And so, you start getting all these pseudo Pauline letters where they're trying to neuter Paul a bit and like, "Let's just stop talking about that end time prophecy that never happened. Let's just pretend that wasn't even a thing, right? let's just talk about blood atonement and confess and believe. And so they tried to upgrade Paul a bit to save him from his embarrassing false prophecies. And so Ephesians is one of these attempts. And so from a, you know, historical critical perspective, we can't just dismiss everything said of or about Paul is definitely false because surely some of these claims trace back to things people knew about the historical Paul, right? And that's why these pseudo for forged authors are mentioning them because they're trying to clean up Paul's reputation and things that he actually did and said. So with that being said, let's look at what Ephesians claims. The problem with this is that in the later written book of Revelation, Jesus specifically states that he has only 12 apostles and he has given them 12 thrones to rule beside them. In the second chapter, Jesus addresses the Ephesians and praises them for weeding out a false apostle. As you touched on, David, he says, "I know your works and your toil, your patient endurance, and how you cannot bear with those who are evil, but have tested those who call themselves apostles and are not and found them to be false." So, in the pseudo Pauline letter of second Timothy, Paul is quoted as stating that he was rejected by everyone in Asia. They did not accept what he taught. So this is the criterion of embarrassment in textual criticism. If Paul was never rejected by the churches in Asia, why would somebody who's trying to write a Pauline letter and sound like Paul and make Paul look good, why would they say he was rejected by all the churches in Asia? There's that's an embarrassing truth if that's if that really happened. You would only say that if you're trying to save face about that fact and clean it up a little bit, right, for future readers. So that's exactly what second Timothy claims is that Paul was rejected by all the churches in Asia. And we don't know how many churches are in Asia that Paul attempted to evangelize to. But one we do know for certain was the church at Ephesus. Ephesus is a church in Asia. And Paul says, "All the churches in Asia rejected me." And Jesus says, "Congratulations church at Ephesus for rejecting a false apostle." It's like, man, I don't know how you get any more clear bullseye than that. Another interesting fact is that Paul and Luke both mentioned that Paul was subject to a heresy trial at Ephesus, a city in western Turkey. So it's like if this is an investigation, this evidence points strongly in the direction of this conclusion that Paul was rejected by the church at Ephesus, which Jesus congratulated them for. Because Paul himself and Luke, the author of Luke, mentions that Paul was subject to a heresy trial in Western Turkey. In 2 Timothy, Paul talks of a trial he endured in Asia where he put up his first defense. Luke also records Paul being rejected by the Ephesians in Acts 19. Finally, Paul also laments to the Corinthians how he was rejected by Asia, saying he felt like he was under a death sentence there. So, we've got like what is this six or seven lines of evidence all affirming this idea that Paul was rejected by the Ephesians. And Paul is talking about it. Pseudo Pauline authors talk about it. Luke talks about it. Acts talks about it. What else do we need to know that this is absolutely something that happened, right? Otherwise, according to the criterion of embarrassment, you would never make up that your hero Paul was subject to a heresy trial at a gentile church. That's humiliating fact. You would only bring that up if you're trying to save face for Paul and say like, you know, Paul, he he was cleared of that and nobody really thought he was a heretic after all. That's what these letters are trying to do for Paul, right? And so we wrap up here with some of the highlights we've been over. Here's all the basic problems with Paul. The overt narcissism and constant self-inflation bragging. His blatant mockery and disregard for Jesus's personal disciples. His bragging that he did not derive his message from the 12. Paul's emphatic about that. I did not get my message from the 12. Those men added nothing to my message. It's like, okay, don't you think that's a problem, Paul? But the men who walked and talked with Jesus, his blood brothers who grew up with him from childhood did not add anything. You got nothing from them. Well, then how are we supposed to believe you're getting an accurate message? It's kind of interesting that Paul admits that actually. But there's the numerous lies in Paul's writings. I didn't even get into that, but I did a whole another presentation on that about Paul's lying in the in the Gospels. And some of it's predicated on Acts. Paul lies a lot in the book of Acts. And we can't know that that's all historical, so fair play to Paul there. But numerous lies and self-admitted deception, bragging about stealing from churches. We didn't get over that, but Paul brags about stealing from a church to the Corinthians so he could give them money. Paul contradicts all major Old Testament prophets with his prophecies and his his writing in theology. Paul called Moses's law a curse, the ministry of death. Uh Paul has numerous false prophecies we went over. Paul egregiously misqu and alter scripture which we didn't get go into in this episode. Paul admits to being tormented by an evil spirit which we actually for somehow didn't read that passage in second Corinthians but I have it memorized where Paul says and so in order to keep me from becoming conceited due to the greatness of my revelations. It's a direct quote. A thorn in the flesh was given to me, a messenger of Satan sent to torment me. That's Angelos Satanos in Greek, a angel of the devil. And Christians say, "Oh no, Paul was just uh being a bit tur there. He was just exaggerating a bit." Why would you use that term, a messenger of Satan, if you're just talking about an annoying neighbor or a foot ache or whatever they think it was, right? You would never describe something trivial as a messenger of Satan. You would only use that term if there was a demonic spirit plaguing you. And to make it even more provable, then Paul follows up by saying, "I pleaded with the Lord Jesus three times to take this messenger of Satan from me." and three times he denied me and said, "Nope, my grace is sufficient for you." So he Paul literally claims that Jesus gave him a demon, right? He says, "In order to keep me from being conceited, a thorn in the flesh was given to me." Those are his exact words. So he's claiming in order to keep me from being too prideful because of the stellar nature of my amazing revelations. Jesus gave me a demon and refused to take it away. Does anybody find that to be problematic? Because I sure do. Jesus cast out demons, right? He didn't give people demons. And you can't justify this belief that Jesus would give somebody a demon if you're relying on the teachings of Jesus alone. Jesus said, "Blessing and cursing cannot flow from the same fountain. A man cannot ride two horses at once, serve two masters at once." You know, a tree by its fruit. A good tree will never bear bad fruit. in a bad tree will never bear good fruit. And so, do we think it's good fruit or bad fruit, guys? That of being possessed by a demon, right? That's probably the worst possible fruit that I can imagine. Well, he said that about uh Jesus did that to keep him humble. And uh he just got finished. How did that work out? Yeah. In the previous chapter, he spent like the entire chapter ranting about how great he was and boasting and he boasting like he's insane. And it's like if if Jesus gave you a demon to keep you humble, he failed miserably at accomplishing what he wanted. Obviously, it wasn't Jesus. Obviously, it was some demonic entity. And yeah, people will say that it's not really a demon, but Paul says this this thing was in his flesh, an angel of Satan in my flesh. That doesn't sound like a person, right? And then there's the whole point of like Paul Paul literally brags in the same sentence where he says, "In order to keep me from being conceited because of the greatness of my revelations." It's like it's like a comedy sketch or something. It's almost hilarious to read it, but you're like, "This is this is the mind of a tortured man, unfortunately." And it's not really funny when you put yourself in Paul's shoes. Like, imagine being Paul and being rejected by everybody and being demonpossessed and you're still out here in these streets being like, "Yo, guys, I promise you I got the true message. Jesus all in private. He's getting beat. He's getting shipwrecked." All of the guilt and shame from being uh oppressing and killing Christians. Imagine what that does to someone's psyche if I mean he was demonp possessed for a long time if he's a killer but you know shame and guilt those energies those emotions also open you up to demonic influence even more so if there was ever a candidate for demonic possession that's Paul so probably a lot more we could say on that but let's continue as we said never met or quoted the real Jesus once That's very problematic. Uh, we've talked a lot about near-death experiences on this podcast and how the millions of recorded near-death experiences flatly debunk Pauline theology. This idea that we're living in a Pauline universe where you go to heaven because you confess and believe apart from works. It's like, yeah, tell that to somebody who's died and come back because what they'll tell you is the universe is all about good works and that's the only thing you're judged by is how you treat others. And um I find that to be beautifully congruent with the gospel of Jesus who said again and again, you got to love the least of these, love your neighbor as yourself. This is the greatest commandment of all. And what people who actually die and come back report is, "Hey guys, the gospel of Jesus is true." Isn't that good news? To me, that's great news. But Christians, for some reason, hate when we bring this point up, and they try to sort of obscate near-death experiences as, well, we don't really know if that's a real phenomenon. And then they'll go back on it because it debunks Pauline theology. No one has ever, no Christian, no Baptist, no evangelical has ever had an NDE who came back and said, you know, I met Jesus and he told me it's all about confessing and believing and apart from works, you know, it's like no, everyone has the same experience. They watch their entire life back and they reexperience all their works, both good and evil, from the perspective of those they did it unto. So, wow, look at that. Even as Jesus said, when you did it to the least of these, it was like you did it to me. And one day we will all stand before the great light, the source, which we call God, and have our life review. And as NDEs report, you don't feel any judgment at all coming from God, the source, the light. This is one of the hallmarks of an NDE is that God, when you meet God, it's just pure, infinite, unconditional love. No ability to judge. You know, how does omniscience judge? Doesn't make sense. God doesn't judge. You find yourself in the paradoxical position of judging yourself because you have to reexperience all of your own works. And if you harmed people, you're going to feel exactly what they felt. And it's going to feel like you did it unto yourself, as Jesus said. So, we think this is great news that near-death experiences, which have been deeply studied for decades now, flatly debunk Pauline theology and unequivocally prove the gospel of Jesus is true. That's the real universe we live in. So, that's another problem for Paul, obviously. And then you could add in the dozens of near-death experiences that we've seen. There's hundreds or thousands more of Jesus confessing Christians who go to hell, which should should be impossible according to Pauline doctrine. And there's one that Aaron and I talk about a lot where I think it's a Christian pastor and the demons come to to bring him to hell. And he goes, "What do you do? You can't do this. So, I'm a Christian." and they start laughing hysterically and they say, "Oh, you think you can't go to hell because you're a Christian?" Boy, do you have a surprise coming for you. So, yeah, it's it's true on the flip side, too. Everyone who goes to hell says it's because they treated people with they had a wicked heart and they treated people terribly. They judged, they held grudges, they didn't forgive, they were oppressive, they lied, they cheated, they stealed. That's what brings people to hell. And the flip side is true for heaven. Yeah. Well said, man. We did an episode on that months and months ago, but there was the female I don't know if she was a pastor, but she was preaching on a Sunday about her NDE, and she was like sternly warning the church like, "Guys, I know we talk about this and this and that, but I'm telling you, if you die with unforgiveness in your heart, you're going to go to the bad place." Period. End of story. Demons don't care if you confess Jesus as Lord. If you're holding unforgiveness in your heart, you're going to go somewhere that matches that frequency. And as Jesus said, when you don't forgive them, your father can't forgive you either because God can't give you something that you withhold from others. It is a perfectly just universe. If you want to be afforded freedom, you have to offer freedom to everyone. And so forgiveness doesn't mean we approve of our abusers and yeah, abuse me, I'm a doormat. No, no, no. It just means God's the judge. I'm not going to hold that animosity in my heart anymore. God forgive them for they knew not what they did and you forgive and you let the justice be up to God. That's it. Every one of us can do that. Second to last point here is the book of Revelation has a reputation of Paul. This is something that scholars unpack and talk a lot about. We could do a whole presentation on it, but suffice to say that Martin Luther, the founder of Protestant Christianity today, absolutely hated the book of Revelation and the Book of James and Jude because those are the only three books in the New Testament that are truly like Nazarene Jewish Christian texts that have no whisper or trace of Pauline theology in them. And as we saw just now, there's some pretty hardcore reputations of Paul in Revelation if you can read between the lines a little bit. And um also with James, James rebutts Paul straight forward in Romans, right? Saying, "Do you want to be shown, oh vain man, that faith without works is dead?" And he quotes the same exact passage as Paul and then explains why Paul is wrong. And Christians will try to harmonize that and say, "No, he wasn't talking to Paul." And it's like, "Guys, the founder of your religion, Martin Luther, the father of Protestantism, openly acknowledged this disagreement between Paul and James. And he sided with Paul. He did not like James or Revelation. He wished they weren't part of the cannon. He even said and it's like, okay, so the brother of Jesus, who was Jesus's appointed successor, Martin Luther said, he's wrong. Paul's right. A guy who never even met Jesus. And imagine the ignorance to disagree with the brother of Jesus and the appointed successor and agree with a guy who never met Jesus. That's what Martin Luther did. And he acknowledged, he said, "If anyone can harmonize these two passages between James and Paul, I'll put my dunce cap on and let you call me a fool." He knew they were irreconcilable, right? They are competing passages where James is refuting Paul on his faith alone doctrine. And he does it very well, might I add. So that's a whole another thing we didn't get into today. And then the last thing here is the dedicay, which means the teaching of the 12. This is like the one of the oldest Christian Jewish Christian texts that was just really discovered in the 1800s. And when you read it, it reads like a liturgy of Jewish Christianity. It begins with uh the two ways, right? There's two ways a man can choose, way of life, way of death. And there's a great difference between these two ways. And then it just goes on and starts quoting Jesus verbatim. Love your neighbor as yourself. Baptism for the forgiveness of sins. And scholars know this is like the oldest Christian liturgy ever written probably. And there's not a whisper of Pauline theology in it. It is just the hardline gospel teachings of Jesus. The Nazarene teachings which the Nazarines carried on after him through his brother James and his brother Simeon. And this whole legacy of Christianity, the Nazarene legacy that's been forgotten and erased by the fake Catholic traditions history. And part of this podcast is us trying to bring this back to life and say, "Look guys, there is an original Christianity, but it looks nothing like the Christianity today." So, if you want to really follow Jesus, you should probably read a book like the dedicay to give yourself an idea of like what did these original Nazarene disciples of Jesus really believe about him? Because if you want to get the most accurate take, as with anything, guys, you got to go back to the source, the oldest origin point you can find for what did the very first Christians believe. And all the church fathers agree, right? The first Christians were called Nazarines. And only later did they become Christians called Christians at Antioch when the Gentile movement took off. So if we know the Nazarines were the first Christians, let's go see what they believed. And the dedicay is a very good example of that. So that's our presentation for today. We wanted to keep this to two hours and probably knew we weren't going to, but it's just such a dense topic that's so deep and like we've said, we could probably do a six-hour podcast on this. So, we'll leave it here for today. I think we fire hosed you guys with enough proofs for today. But, David, we'd love to do a part two with you and just go even deeper into this topic because there's so many more angles we can discuss church history and the sootiology and all kinds of juicy stuff. So, we'll definitely have you back for a part two, but I'll just kind of um leave it to you to have the floor if you want to say anything in conclusion of today's conversation. Yeah, I just uh just want to make the point there's a lot more that we could say. Like, it's hard to really even cover this subject because there's so much evidence like we we didn't even get to second Peter 3:17 and what what Peter was really saying. That's another one of the passages that Luther was offended by. Uh there's the the fact that Paul may have inadvertently caused the whole neuronic persecution of the Christian church. Um you know these Christians being burned alive in Rome and and blamed for the the fire set in Rome that that may have stemmed from Paul and uh letters that he wrote back and forth with Cynica that we have records of. I mean, there's just there's so much to to go over, but what it really comes down to, if you want to boil it down to the simplest terms, Jesus told us in Matthew 24 26, if this guy comes along saying that he uh he saw me in the wilderness or he saw me in the inner room, don't believe him. Like, that's what we are told to do. And it wasn't a request. It wasn't, hey, you probably shouldn't believe him. It was a commandment. He said, do not believe him. do not go after him. And we just, you know, we start off, we went through seven different times where where Jesus warned about Paul. So, you can't be a follower of Paul and a follower of Jesus. You can't you can't say that you're obedient to Jesus if you're following Paul because he commanded you not to be. So, this is a it's an important issue. It's um it's one that people want to fight against and they don't want to look at the evidence and they want to spend all their time trying to debunk what quite honestly can't really be debunked. Like you know the only thing you can do is just call somebody a heretic and walk away because they offended you over your favorite apostate. So um so this I mean it's just really one of those things you got to take a good uh heart check on the matter and do you really love Jesus? Is he really your savior? is he, you know, Paul didn't die on the cross for you if if that's the way you believe. You know, he didn't he didn't make any kind of sacrifice for you. In fact, he he denigrated the the apostles that that Jesus chose. So, you don't owe Paul anything. The only thing you owe is you owe the truth. You know, the truth is what matters. And Jesus said, "I'm the way, the truth, and the life." Well, you can't follow the truth through a lie. And uh he said that those who worship me will worship me in spirit and truth. So again, truth, you know, you can't you can't mix truth with with Paul and theology. You'll just get twisted up in knots. So yeah, obey Jesus. Yeah, obey Jesus. We should call that the title of this episode. Yeah, maybe the thumbnail at least. Um but David, man, thank you for joining us today. I've been really looking forward to jamming on this topic with you for a long time because I consider you one of the foremost experts on this topic out there that we found and so it did not disappoint. This was an absolute blast and I can't wait to have you back for a second uh part two on this one. So, thank you David, thank you James. You guys have been awesome today and thank you all for tuning in to this episode of the Jesus Way podcast. I really hope that you feel the same way about this topic as I do, which is that I'm just so freaking glad that Jesus's gospel is true and Paul's is false. I don't want to live in a universe where I have to confess and believe and I'll just be a wicked sinner forever. I want to be like Jesus. I want to walk as Jesus walked. I want to embody the same light and love that Jesus embodied. And although Paul thought it was impossible, thank goodness the true master did not. And he commanded us in fact to follow him and be perfect as your heavenly father is perfect and keep my commandments. So that's what we do here on the Jesus way podcast. We talk about how to live the true Jesus way, which is summarized in the greatest commandment of all, the golden rule. Love God with all your heart and love your neighbor as yourself. And so that's what we encourage you to get out there and do to live and spread the true Jesus message through love. Thank you guys for tuning in. Be blessed and we'll see you on the next episode of the Jesus Way podcast. Peace and love.